                                     2020 IGB Varsity/JV Nationals
                                               Packet 4


1. A tjasker [jasker] is a type of this structure used only for water drainage. The Gooyer, one of these
   structures in a national capital, is a national monument, while several more of these structures are
   preserved at (+) Zaanse Schans. During World War II, the sails of these objects were often used to signal
   German military positions, and they can be tilted (*) rightward to signify mourning. Many of these structures
   were used to create the polders of Beemster, Schermer, and Kinderdijk in the Netherlands. For the points, name
   these tall structures that utilize renewable energy to grind grain or perform other mechanical tasks.
   ANSWER: Dutch windmills [accept windpumps; prompt on mills; do not accept or prompt on wind turbines or
   equivalents]

2. Description Acceptable. It’s not Brexit, but the U.K. Independent Party’s advocacy of this position has
   been heavily influenced by Christopher Monckton. Joe Romm convinced Jerry Taylor, the founder of the
   Niskanen center, to move away from this position. The levels of (+) water vapor are used by people who
   advocate for this position, including the State Policy Network of think tanks. Dmitri Medvedev stopped
   holding this position after the 2010 Russia (*) wildfires. After the 1980s, companies like Shell and
   ExxonMobil began advocating for, for the points, what position that Jim Inhofe advocated for by bringing a
   snowball into the Senate chamber?
   ANSWER: climate change denial [accept equivalents like global warming for climate change and skepticism
   for denial]

3. The Wolfe's Pond and Shorefront Parkways are among the planned roads for this island that were never
   built. This island’s Conference House Park is the site of a Lenape burial mound and is located in its
   southern (+) Tottenville area, while Cornelius Vanderbilt is buried at Moravian Cemetery in the New
   Dorp section of this island. The Goethals Bridge connects this island to the mainland, and this island
   located in (*) Richmond County is connected to other nearby islands with an orange-painted namesake
   passenger ferry and the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge. For the points, name this island, the southwesternmost
   borough of New York City.
   ANSWER: Staten Island



4. King Eric IX is buried in a French Gothic cathedral in this city; that cathedral was the traditional
   coronation site for kings of its country. The Linnaean Gardens are on the campus of a university in this
   city, where astronomer Anders (+) Celsius came up with his namesake temperature scale. This city is
   divided by the Fyris River and its university, the oldest (*) Nordic university, has a main building named for
   Gustavus Adolphus. For the points, name this Swedish city about 70 kilometers north of Stockholm.
   ANSWER: Uppsala



5. During the Civil War, seeds of this plant were roasted and ground as a decaffeinated substitute for coffee,
   and it contains mucilage, often making forms of it feel slimy. This plant, often called (+) “lady fingers,”
   comes in green and red varieties, though the red turns green during cooking, and a form of it is often used
   in stews in (*) West Africa. It’s not sassafras, but Cajun gumbo was likely named for the use of this plant as a
   thickener. For the points, name this plant with edible seed pods often grown in the Southern US or Africa.
   ANSWER: okra
6. The extremely dangerous Snaefell Mountain road circuit is used for a TT race on this island that was first
   run in 1907. The Moddey Dhoo is a mythological black dog that supposedly haunted this island’s Peel
   Castle. The (+) Tynwald, which claims to be the “oldest continuous Parliament,” meets in this island’s
   capital of Douglas. This island’s flag depicts a triple spiral of three white (*) legs with golden spurs on a red
   background. A cat breed named for this Celtic island has a mutation that naturally gives it a shortened tail. For
   the points, name this “Isle” in the Irish Sea.
   ANSWER: Isle of Man

7. It’s not New York, but a sculpture garden in this city has a “wish tree” dedicated by Yoko Ono. Other
   outdoor sculptures in this city include Roy Lichtenstein’s House 1 and Alexander Calder’s Red Horse,
   both of which belong to a museum partly designed by (+) I.M. Pei. It’s also not New Orleans, but four
   statues of foreign American Revolution heroes surround Andrew Jackson in this city’s Lafayette Square.
   War monuments in this city include Frederick Hart’s (*) Three Soldiers, which commemorates the Vietnam
   War. The Hirshhorn Sculpture Garden is in, for the points, what city home to Daniel Chester French’s statue of
   Abraham Lincoln?
   ANSWER: Washington, D.C. [accept either]

8. Marie’s [Mary’s] Bridge is used to access a 19th-century castle in this state whose Throne Room and Hall
   of the Singers are based on the similar-looking Wartburg Castle. Cuisine native to this state includes
   white sausage, Franconia wine, and (+) beer that, by law, can only contain water, barley, and hops. A
   celebration in this state takes place at the Theresienwiese (tair-AY-zee-en-vee-she), holds historic costume
   parades, and begins with the cry “it’s (*) tapped!” Neuschwanstein Castle was built by Ludwig II in this state,
   whose capital hosted the 1972 Summer Olympics. Nuremberg and Munich are cities in, for the points, what
   largest state of Germany by area?
   ANSWER: Bavaria

9. An archipelago in this river is protected as part of Anavilhanas National Park, while Jau National Park is
   on its right bank. It’s not the Amazon, but a pink opera house named the Teatro Amazonas has a green-
   and-yellow dome overlooking this river. As this river leaves the (+) Guiana Highlands, it flows through
   the city of São Gabriel da Cachoeira. Tributaries of this river include the Vaupes and the (*) Branco, and
   it ends at the Meeting of the Waters in Manaus. For the points, name this tributary of the Amazon, named for
   being a blackwater river.
   ANSWER: Rio Negro

10. A city with this name built the Parque Gulliver, which has a fiberglass version of the Jonathan Swift
    character that children can climb on. The Falles is a festival honoring Saint Joseph in that city of this
    name, the capital and namesake of a (+) region that has an enclave named the Rincón de Ademuz, which
    is surrounded by Castile-La Mancha and Aragon. The Blaverism movement advocates for the use of a
    separate (*) language distinct from Catalan in that region of this name. For the points, give this name to both an
    autonomous community in eastern Spain and its capital city on the Mediterranean Sea.
    ANSWER: Valencia

11. This island group’s Striated Caracara is often called the Johnny Rook while one island in this group is
    home to the second largest King Penguin colony. About 10% of this archipelago’s residents list
    themselves as having Saint (+) Helenan nationality, and its Eagle Passage separates Speedwell Island
    from the Lafonia region of a larger island. (*) Darwin and Fitzroy are towns named for the Beagle expedition
    on its East Island, while Port Howard is the largest settlement on its West Island. Stanley is the capital of, for the
    points, what island group disputed between Argentina and the U.K.?
    ANSWER: Falkland Islands [or Islas Malvinas]
12. This state is the site of the source of the Lerma River as well as the Cosmovitral stained glass mural. This
    state is home to its country’s newest Catholic cathedral, the Sacred Heart of Jesus Cathedral, and the
    Pyramid of the (+) Sun is located in this state’s site of Teotihuacan. This fast-growing state includes
    suburban areas like the 60s-era Ciudad Satellite and its country’s second-most populous city, Ecatepec.
    This state's capital is (*) Toluca and it borders the states of Michoacán, Morelos, and Puebla as well as its
    country's capital on three sides. For the points, name this Mesoamerican state, a subnational division that shares
    its name with its country.
    ANSWER: State of Mexico [accept Edomex]

13. This process occurs after the breakdown of a symbiotic relationship with the unicellular organism
    Zooxanthellae, which conducts (+) photosynthesis for a larger organism. Those Zooxanthellae can be
    killed by oxygen deprivation, or expelled due to increased ocean temperatures and (*) acidification. This
    process has killed a significant amount of A. tenuifolia in Belize as well as much of the Great Barrier Reef. For
    the points, name this process that causes coral to expel algae and lose their coloration.
    ANSWER: coral bleaching

14. The Maestri Bridge crosses this body of water’s eastern portion, running alongside the newer Twin Span
    Bridge. This body of water is at the northern end of the Industrial Canal and it receives water from Lake
    (+) Maurepas and occasionally the Bonnet Carré Spillway. Though not Lake Erie, Lakefront Airport is
    along this body of water but was replaced for commercial aviation purposes with a facility named for
    Louis (*) Armstrong. This lake is crossed by the longest continuous bridge over water in the world, its
    namesake causeway, that connects Mandeville with Metairie, a suburb of New Orleans. For the points, name
    this estuary referred to as a lake in Louisiana.
    ANSWER Lake Pontchartrain

15. In this province, artist Shu Yong created a waterfall of 10,000 toilets for an art festival in Foshan. Rocks
    resembling Sleeping Beauty can be found in this province’s Mount Danxia, a part of the larger (+) Nan
    Mountains. The Qiongzhou Strait separates this province’s Leizhou Peninsula from the island of (*)
    Hainan, and Deng Xiaoping created China’s first mainland Special Economic Zone in this country. Prior to
    European intervention, the city-states of Macau and Hong Kong were historically a part of this province in
    China. For the points, name this Chinese province home to the cities of Guangzhou and Shenzhen.
    ANSWER: Guangdong

16. This country’s independence was proclaimed at the Champ de Mars, which claims to be the second-oldest
    horse racetrack in the world. That racetrack and most of this country’s namesake island is overlooked by
    Le Pouce, a mountain whose name translates to “the thumb.” Ile Raphael is part of the sparsely-
    populated Saint (+) Brandon archipelago of this country, that also includes the North Island and South
    Island of Agalega. The (*) dodo went extinct in this country, whose city of Port Mathurin is the capital of
    Rodrigues. For the points, name this country with capital Port Louis.
    ANSWER: Republic of Mauritius

17. A dam named for this city creates the Pondori Floodplains, allowing increased cultivation of rice along
    the Bani River. A replica of a mosque in this city was built by the (+) French in Fréjus to placate local
    colonial troops from West Africa. This city is protected as a World Heritage Site along with its “Jenno,”
    or “ancient” city, and its namesake (*) Great Mosque, like many buildings in the Sahel, is made entirely of
    adobe brick. For the points, name this Malian city in Mopti, an important center of the Medieval Saharan trade
    along with Timbuktu.
    ANSWER: Djenné
18. German immigrants are said to have heavily influenced the production of wine in this state’s Barossa
    Valley. The largest uranium deposit in the world is believed to be the Olympic Dam mine in this state also
    home to an (+) opal mining community known for its “dugout” underground homes. Coober Pedy is a
    town in this state whose Kangaroo Island is just off the Yorke Peninsula, which separates the (*) Spencer
    Gulf and Gulf St. Vincent. The eastern ends of the Great Victoria Desert and the Nullarbor Plain are in this state,
    which lies west of Victoria. For the points, name this Australian state with capital Adelaide.
    ANSWER: South Australia

19. Female haenyeo divers harvest shellfish off the coast of this island, where lava structures promoted the
    undisturbed growth of the Gotjawal Forest. This island is home to stone statues of little men with
    mushrooms on their heads known as (+) harubangs. This island’s highest point is Hallasan, which is home
    to the Jonjaamji Pagoda, while (*) Seogwipo is a port on its southern coast. The mainland city of Mokpo
    operates a ferry to this island, and the MV Sewol, a ferry from Incheon to this island, sank in 2014. For the
    points, name this island off the southern coast of South Korea.
    ANSWER: Jeju Island

20. A gravedigger who stole the clothes of over three hundred dead settlers was exiled to this lake’s Fremont
    Island. The Lucin Cutoff railroad line included a twelve-mile trestle bridge across this lake, which
    reached its eastern shore near (+) Promontory Summit, in the Promontory Range. This lake is fed by the
    Bear and Weber Rivers, which rise in the (*) Uinta Mountains, and by the Jordan River, which has the Provo
    River as a tributary. Robert Smithson’s earthwork sculpture Spiral Jetty is on this lake, which is east of the
    Bonneville Salt Flats. For the points, name this saltwater lake in Utah.
    ANSWER: Great Salt Lake

21. This city is bypassed just south of Gilo by Highway 60, where that road meets the Tunnels checkpoint.
    This city is located near Beit Jala and is two kilometers from the Aida Refugee camp. The Jacir Palace is
    one of thirty hotels that cater to (+) pilgrims to this city, and the Jewish holy site of Rachel's Tomb is
    located to the north of this city. Though this city has a majority Muslim population, its most significant
    religious site in this city just south of (*) Jerusalem is a Christian church, the Basilica of the Nativity. For the
    points, name this West Bank city, best known as the supposed birthplace of Jesus.
    ANSWER: Bethlehem [accept Beit Lahm]

22. In 2016, California secession advocates opened a “People’s embassy” in this city. Fortified monasteries in
    this city include the New Monastery of the Savior and the Danilov Monastery, which serves as the home
    of this city’s (+) patriarch. A large titanium obelisk in this city is the Monument to the Conquerors of
    Space, and its Hotel Ukraina, the tallest in Europe, is one of this city’s “Seven (*) Sisters.” This city’s
    “Garden Ring” cuts through Gorky Park, and in between two museums dedicated to Leo Tolstoy. For the points,
    name this city home to the Bolshoi Theater and Saint Basil’s Cathedral.
    ANSWER: Moscow

23. Supporters of a law changing rules for attaining this status publicized a phone hotline where people could
    allegedly receive free Netflix subscriptions. Following protests against a law covering this status, members
    of the student political group ABVP attacked university students, and police officers assaulted students at
    the (+) Jamia Millia Islamia. The OHCHR [spell out] has criticized a law covering this status that, along
    with a National Register, would potentially leave (*) Rohingya and Tibetan refugees stateless, and which led
    to a series of protests that began in Assam. For the points, identify this status that a 2019 Amendment Act would
    give to certain non-Muslim refugees from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan.
    ANSWER: Indian citizenship [or equivalents like being a citizen of India; do not accept or prompt on answers
    related to legal status but not citizenship]
24. It’s not Yemen, but a group of islands belonging to this country has the largest remaining Socotra
    Cormorant colony. Land reclamation projects have destroyed much of this country’s wetland of Tubli
    Bay, which is west of (+) Sitra. This country was formerly home to the Pearl Roundabout, before it was
    destroyed by government forces cracking down on Arab Spring Protests. Only a namesake “Beach Hotel”
    and a police station occupy this country’s uninhabited (*) Hawar Islands. The King Fahd Causeway links
    Saudi Arabia with, for the points, what Persian Gulf country with capital Manama?
    ANSWER: Kingdom of Bahrain

25. This National Park is partially bounded on the west by Interstate 44 and it is located near Laclede's
    Landing. This National Park's structures include the Old Courthouse, the site of early trials in the Dred
    Scott case. This park was formerly the (+) Jefferson National Expansion Memorial and at 193 acres it is
    the smallest National Park in the United States. This National Park was established in (*) 2018, but is
    named for a steel-clad monument built in 1965. For the points, name this National Park located along the
    Mississippi River in St. Louis, named for a 630-foot tall catenary arch designed by Eero Saarinen.
    ANSWER: Gateway Arch National Park

26. A national capital may have moved to this city because President Marco Aurelio Soto had interests in the
    Rosario Mining Company, based out of the nearby village of San Juancito, which is now near La Tigra
    National Park. This city has explored directing commercial traffic to the Soto Cano Air Base because its
    (+) Toncontin Airport is considered one of the most dangerous in the world, and this city is across the
    Choluteca River from (*) Comayaguela. In addition to San Pedro Sula, this city was heavily impacted by
    Hurricanes Eta and Iota in November 2020. For the points, name this capital of Honduras.
    ANSWER: Tegucigalpa

27. A government residence in this city is a converted fort overlooking its harbor and is painted baby blue.
    This city’s Casa Blanca was the residence of the descendants of Juan (+) Ponce de Leon, and its “old”
    district is overlooked by the Castillo San Felipe del Morro. This city is home to the only subway on the
    Greater Antilles. Astronomers at this city’s university were disappointed to hear of the recent collapse of
    the (*) Arecibo Observatory, which had been damaged by Hurricane Maria in 2017. For the points, name this
    capital of Puerto Rico.
    ANSWER: San Juan

28. Street children in this capital city are referred to as “shegues.” The city was the site of a 1974 sporting
    event that was watched by around 1 billion people; the largest TV audience for a live event up until that
    time. (+) Lingala is used as a lingua franca in this metropolis whose main seaport is Matadi, which itself is
    still some 90 miles inland, but downstream from the (*) Livingstone Falls. This city, which hosted the
    “Rumble in the Jungle,” is across the Malebo Pool from Brazzaville. For the points, name this capital of the
    Democratic Republic of the Congo.
    ANSWER: Kinshasa

29. In this country, the kira is a traditional dress worn by women and the gho is a traditional robe for its men.
    “Southerners” is a common term for a minority group this country has targeted for deportation; since
    1980, over 100,000 of that (+) Lhotshampa minority has been expelled. This country's sole national
    language is closely related to and mutually intelligible with (*) Sikkimese. This country's highest peak,
    Gangkhar Puensum, is generally accepted to be the world’s highest mountain that has yet to be climbed. The
    Wangchuck Dynasty rules, for the points, what “Thunder Dragon Kingdom” that measures Gross National
    Happiness?
    ANSWER: Kingdom of Bhutan
30. Within this body of water, the islands of Santonen and Hanhinen merged to become the modern island of
    Hailuoto two centuries ago. The northern part of this body of water is at one end of the Kvarken, and
    receives rivers like the (+) Kemijoki, the Torne, and the Skellefte. Ports on this body include Sundsvall,
    Oulu, and Lulea, which is in (*) Lapland. At the entrance of this body of water are the Åland Islands, an
    autonomous community of Finland that exclusively speaks Swedish. For the points, name this northernmost arm
    of the Baltic Sea.
    ANSWER: Gulf of Bothnia [prompt on Baltic Sea before mention]

31. Traditional foods of this ethnic group include the taguella flatbread, and their drink eghajira is made
    from millet, goat cheese, and dates. The Sultanate of Agadez, also known as the Sultanate of Air, was
    founded by the (+) Hausa and this ethnic group. The tagelmust, a traditional clothing of these people, is
    frequently dyed using indigo. That dye can rub off onto the skin, leading this group to be referred to as
    the (*) “blue people.” Rebellions among this ethnic group led to the creation of the breakaway state of Azawad,
    which was governed from Gao in Mali. For the points, name this often nomadic ethnic group that inhabits the
    southern Sahara.
    ANSWER: Tuareg [accept kel Tamasheq; prompt on Berber]

32. Natives of this island used sperm whale teeth to make carvings of monsters more formally depicted using
    body parts of dead animals and human children. Tupilaq are figures from the religion of this island,
    which has a much higher (+) suicide rate than any other country in the world. Inuktun is a language
    spoken in the northwest of this island, which includes Qaanaq, formerly known as (*) Thule (TOO-lee),
    though this island’s official language is Kalaalisut. This island is separated from Baffin Island by the Davis
    Strait. For the points, name this large island governed from Nuuk, nominally still a part of Denmark.
    ANSWER: Greenland [or Kalaallit Nunaat]

33. The 984-foot-tall Nurek Dam is on the Vakhsh River in this country. This country’s M41 Highway, which
    runs east to west across this country, is the primary access route to Khorough, the capital of its (+)
    Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Region. This country’s Ibn Sina Peak and Ismoil Somoni Peak, both
    over 7,000 meters, were formerly named (*) Lenin Peak and Communism Peak. The Amu Darya forms on the
    southern border of this country, whose terrain is dominated by the Alay and Pamir Mountains. For the points,
    name this country north of Afghanistan’s Wakhan Corridor, with capital Dushanbe.
    ANSWER: Republic of Tajikistan

34. In this city, surrealist images dot the windows of an abandoned church in the Hrad district, the
    Obrazaren pri Dome. Another church in this city, the Church of St. Elizabeth, has a blue façade and roof.
    This city is just east of the Devin Gate and the (+) Morava’s confluence with a larger river. This city sits
    on the foothills of the Little Carpathians and first became a capital city after the (*) Velvet Divorce in
    1993. With Budapest, Belgrade, and Vienna, this is one of the four capital cities on the Danube River. For the
    points, name this city formerly known as Pressburg, the capital of Slovakia.
    ANSWER: Bratislava

35. This island’s Minoan Fountain was right behind its Stoa of Antigonos. On this island, a team led by
    André Plassart excavated a synagogue that dates back to the 2nd century B.C.E. Mount (+) Cynthus, a
    500-foot high rock, was likely this island’s Acropolis. A large statue of Apollo used to stand by the Great
    Temple of this island, the mythological birthplace of (*) him and Artemis. Mykonos, Tinos, Naxos, and Siros
    can all be seen from this island. For the points, name this Aegean island at the center of the Cyclades.
    ANSWER: Delos
EXTRA QUESTIONS:

In the metropolitan area of this city, 902 bamboo pipes are used in the organ of the St. Joseph Parish
Church in Las Piñas. This city’s San Agustin Church was built in the Earthquake Baroque style, and is in
its walled area of (+) Intramuros. Laguna Lake is southeast of the metropolitan area of this city designed
in part by American architect Daniel Burnham. The Marinka Shoe Museum, also in the metropolitan
area of this city, includes seven hundred pairs from Imelda (*) Marcos, who lived in its Malacañang Palace.
The Pasig River flows through, for the points, what city southwest of Quezon City, the capital of the
Philippines?
ANSWER: Manila

A group of about two dozen granite statues in this city are known as the “Old Prussian Hags.” In 2019,
the mayor of this city was stabbed to death at an event for the Great Orchestra of Christmas. This city’s
“Golden (+) Gate” and “Long Market” is on its “Royal Route,” which originated when it belonged to the
Hanseatic League. One of the first skirmishes of World War II took place at a post office in this city, also
the site of the (*) Lenin shipyard. The resort city of Sopot and the port of Gdynia [guh-din-yuh] are north of
this city, which names a gulf separated from Kaliningrad by the Vistula Spit. For the points, name this Polish
city on an arm of the Baltic Sea.
ANSWER: Gdansk [accept Danzig]

This mountain became the first peak over 20,000 feet tall to be climbed by Europeans when Matterhorn
first-ascender Edward Whymper summited it in 1880. For much of the 18th and 19th century, this
mountain was believed to be the (+) Earth’s tallest. This mountain is the highest in its country and an
inactive stratovolcano, unlike its country's second-tallest peak, (*) Cotopaxi, which remains volcanically
active. This mountain's summit, and not Mount Everest’s, is the point on the Earth's surface farthest from the
center of the Earth, as the Earth bulges near the Equator. For the points, name this volcano found at 1 degree
south latitude in Ecuador.
ANSWER: Chimborazo
