                                      2020 IGB Varsity/JV Nationals
                                                Packet 5

1. This is the less-spoken language of two connected in a couplet about “butter, bread, and green cheese.”
   This group of languages is also the less spoken of two that name a “nasal spirant law” in which nasal
   consonants eventually disappeared when between a vowel and a fricative, leading to a lengthening of
   certain vowels. The (+) Groning dialects are Saxon languages heavily influenced by this other language
   group, speakers of which primarily live on islands like (*) Norderney, Terschelling, and Texel in an
   archipelago also known as the Wadden islands. For the points, name this group of West German languages more
   similar to English than German or Dutch.
   ANSWER: Frisian languages

2. American influences on the cuisine of this island led to the creation of dishes like taco rice. Shuri Castle is
   a gusuku castle that served as the palace for a kingdom based on this island, and was rebuilt after it was
   destroyed in 1945. The Mid-Sea Road connects Henza to this island’s (+) Katsuren Peninsula, while karst
   depressions dot its Motobu Peninsula. The Cornerstone of Peace is a memorial for the over two hundred
   thousand people who died on this island during (*) World War II; that battle heavily influenced the plans for
   Operation Downfall. Naha is the capital of, for the points, what island, the largest of Japan’s Ryukyu Islands?
   ANSWER: Okinawa

3. Gillo Pontecorvo won a Golden Lion at the Venice Film Festival for a historical drama about guerilla
   fighters in this city. The Test Garden of Hamma is a botanical garden in this city’s Mohamed Belouizdad
   district, named for a leader of the “Special (+) Organization.” The Neo-Byzantine Cathedral of Notre-
   Dame d’Afrique is in this city, which served as a base for pirates while nominally under Ottoman rule.
   General Jacques Massu supported the use of torture during a battle for this city, where a coup d’etat led
   to the May (*) 1958 crisis and the establishment of the Fifth Republic. For the points, name this city at the foot
   of the Tell Atlas, the capital of Algeria.
   ANSWER: Algiers

4. This borough’s United Almshouses building is located on its historic Rochester Row, and this borough’s
   Horseferry Road once connected to a river crossing now made by the (+) Lambeth Bridge. Terry Farrell’s
   postmodern Embankment Place looms over this borough’s Charing Cross station, situated near the
   western end of the Strand at (*) Trafalgar Square. Elizabeth Tower sits on the east edge of this borough near
   its namesake Palaces. For the points, name this borough just west of the City of London, home of a historic
   Abbey and the Houses of Parliament.
   ANSWER: City of Westminster [do not accept or prompt on London or City of London]

5. This city was initially built on the Shawmut Peninsula, which was connected to the mainland by this city’s
   namesake “Neck.” In 1879, Frederick Law Olmsted converted a marsh into a park known as The (+)
   Fens, part of the larger reclaimed neighborhood of Back Bay. This city’s Bulfinch Triangle was created
   by filling a pond with material from (*) Beacon Hill, while it annexed its suburb of Charlestown in 1874.
   Other historic neighborhoods in this city include the North End and Dorchester. For the points, name this city,
   the site of the Freedom Trail and the Massachusetts Capitol Building.
   ANSWER: Boston, Massachusetts
6. A modern proponent of this practice was woodcarving artist Beau Dick, who spent much of his life in
   Alert Bay. Candlefish and cedar blankets are a part of this tradition, which is fundamental to the
   democracy of the (+) Haida nation. A ban on this activity due to its spiritual connections led to 20 First
   Nations members to be jailed in Burnaby. This ceremony’s name comes from the Chinook for “to (*)
   give” and is practiced by the Tlingit and Coast Salish people along the Inside Passage and the Strait of Juan de
   Fuca. For the points, name this gift-giving ceremony studied by Franz Boas and practiced by Native American
   tribes in the coastal Pacific Northwest.
   ANSWER: potlatch [prompt on gift-giving]

7. In the suburbs of this city, the terminally ill Robert Asp spent his last years building a replica of a Viking
   Ship found at the Gokstad Mound for the Hjemkomst Center. Another historical site in this city’s
   suburbs is Bonanzaville, a group of historic buildings collected by the (+) Cass County Historical Society.
   This city is named for a director of the Northern Pacific Railway and founder of a Fortune 500 bank, and
   it lost a court case against the neighboring city of (*) Moorhead for control of a namesake toll bridge across
   the Red River of the North. For the points, name this most populous city in North Dakota.
   ANSWER: Fargo

8. Death Valley Junction, California, is home to one of these buildings named Amargosa, and which was
   painted entirely by its owner Marta Becket. In 1996, two electricians deliberately burned down one of
   these buildings in Venice named La Fenice [Fen-EE-chay], or “the (+) Phoenix.” A specially-designed one
   of these buildings hosts the annual Bayreuth (bye-ROIT) Festival; Bayreuth is also home to a UNESCO-
   protected “Margravial” one of these buildings. The largest one of these buildings in the world is at (*)
   Lincoln Center in Manhattan, while one of these designed by Jorn Utzon features a number of sail-like “shells.”
   For the points, name these venues for the performing arts.
   ANSWER: opera house [prompt on theaters]

9. The H.M.S. Astrea and the Donna Paula, a Portuguese slave ship, are wrecks off one island in this
   territory. The Bitter End Yacht Club is popular with sailors on an island in this territory, whose coast
   also includes a formation of volcanic boulders known as The Baths. (+) Necker Island, a resort owned by
   Richard Branson, is part of this territory. Horseshoe Reef is just off the coast of one island in this
   territory, whose communities include The Settlement and (*) Great Harbour. For the points, name this island
   group including Anegada, Jost Van Dyke, and Tortola, a British territory with capital Road Town.
   ANSWER: British Virgin Islands [prompt on Virgin Islands]

10. The Beheading of St. John the Baptist, the only painting signed by Caravaggio, is in this city’s St. John’s
    Co-Cathedral. A national parliament used to meet in this city’s Grandmaster’s Palace, which is now used
    by its country’s President. This city’s opera house, destroyed in World War II, was redesigned by Renzo
    (+) Piano into an outdoor theater. This city is less populous than its suburbs of Qormi, Sliema, and
    Birkirkara, and it was built on the Sciberras Peninsula near the ruins of Fort Saint (*) Elmo. This city is
    named for a member of the Knights Hospitaller who defended its island from an Ottoman siege. For the points,
    name this capital of Malta.
    ANSWER: Valletta

11. This figure allegedly first appeared in the late 1930s to encourage people to throw away money and
    return to indigenous culture, but could’ve been a vision caused by the narcotic kava. A movement
    venerating this figure may have been based around removing white missionaries, since this figure’s last
    name translates to “broom.” On February (+) 15, a holiday named for this figure, the letters “T-A U-S-A”
    are worn on shirts or painted onto chests, and military parades are conducted. (*) For the points, name this
    figure venerated by cargo cults on the island of Tanna, typically depicted as an American serviceman from
    World War II.
    ANSWER: John Frum
12. While investigating this site, French archaeologist Madeleine Colani found teeth and bones suggestive of
    cremated bodies. The only decorated object at this site has a “frog-man” carved on its outside, and most
    of those objects are believed to have had now-destroyed (+) “lids.” This site can be accessed from the city
    of Phosavan in the Annamese Cordillera, but is only partially open to visitors due to unexploded bombs
    from the (*) “Secret War.” The namesake objects of this site were likely used as a type of urn, but were
    legendarily used by giants to store wine. For the points, name this megalithic site on the Xiangkhoang Plateau in
    Laos.
    ANSWER: Plain of Jars

13. In the northeast of this country, black hive beekeeping is conducted near Camlihemsin by members of the
    Hemshin ethnic minority. In this country, the “Honey Forest” is threatened by tourism along the Firtina
    River and in the Kackar Mountains of (+) Rize province. Hazelnuts are a popular export of this country’s
    region of Trabzon, named for a former port on the Silk Road. The (*) Pontic and Anti-Taurus Mountains
    meet near Lake Van and Mount Ararat in the east of this country. For the points, what country is dominated by
    the Anatolian Plateau?
    ANSWER: Republic of Turkey

14. Art deco stained-glass and chandeliers are in one of these places in Porto converted out of the Cafe
    Imperial. A DC-3 plane has been converted into an extension of one of these places in Taupo, New
    Zealand. At what was formerly the Gore House in (+) Freeport, Maine, patrons of that one of these places
    can order lobster rolls. A stand in Downey, California is the oldest remaining of these locations, which
    were originally set up without heating and (*) seats tilted forward and further apart to promote customer
    turnover. A yellow, white, brown, and red paint scheme was developed for franchises run by Ray Kroc of, for
    the points, what business synonymous with golden arches?
    ANSWER: McDonald’s restaurants [or equivalent; prompt on descriptions of fast food or just restaurants]

15. In this region, almost 1,500 stairs are used to access the Poenari Citadel, which is east of the Olt River.
    The Romans incorporated part of this region into a province named Moesia Inferior, a name that
    referred to the lower sections of the river on this region’s southern border. (+) Muntenia and Oltania
    form this larger region, whose cities include Craiova and (*) Târgovişte. This region’s independence from
    Hungarian control was secured by Basarab I in the 1300s, and it united with Moldavia in the 19th century. For
    the points, name this historical region between the Carpathians and the Danube in southern Romania.
    ANSWER: Wallachia [accept Mutenia before mention but do not accept or prompt on Oltenia]

16. This administrative region is home to the Pilat, Europe’s tallest dune, near Arcachon Bay, and its other
    resort areas include Biarritz and Royan. This region is home to a thriving viticulture industry centered in
    places such as St. Emilion and (+) Cognac, which is upstream of Rochefort on the Charente River. The
    Gironde is formed from the merger of the Dordogne and the (*) Garonne in this region, which encompasses
    the historic region of Gascony. For the points, name this newly formed region of France with cities Bayonne and
    Bordeaux, created by the 2014 merger of Limousin, Poitou-Charentes, and Aquitaine.
    ANSWER: Nouvelle-Aquitaine [do not accept or prompt on Aquitaine]

17. In a bid to prevent the construction of this city, the politician Obafemi Awolowo offered to sell its site to
    Disney for use as a park. Construction has stalled on this city’s Millenium Tower, slated to be the tallest
    structure in its country. This city’s National Assembly building and most of its (+) Three Arms Zone is at
    the foot of Aso Rock, a large granite monolith overlooking the city. This city, the fastest-growing city in
    the world between 2000 and 2010, has been connected to Kaduna by the first phase of a rail project that
    will link (*) Kano with the most populous city in Africa. For the points, name this capital of Nigeria.
    ANSWER: Abuja
18. The speed of this process can be calculated based on known magnetic reversals and the distances between
    two (+) “stripes.” Hydrothermal vents are often found at centers of this process, which is driven by slab
    pull and subduction rather than push from (*) magma. The first scientific proposal of this process led to the
    theory of plate tectonics, building on Alfred Wegener’s idea of continental drift. For the points, name this
    process by which new oceanic crust is formed in mid-Ocean ridges.
    ANSWER: seafloor spreading [prompt on plate tectonics but do not accept or prompt on continental drift]

19. This city's neighborhood of Comuna 13 is home to one of the world’s longest escalators, nearly half a
    kilometer long. This capital city of the department of Antioquia lies in the Aburrá Valley and is the center
    of its country's second largest metropolitan area. Operation Orion helped decrease the (+) murder rate of
    this city by close to 95% since its peak in the ‘80s and ‘90s, which at the time made this city the world’s
    most dangerous. President Alvaro (*) Uribe, who implemented that plan, also served as this city’s mayor in
    1982. For the points, name this city where drug lord Pablo Escobar based his cartel in northwestern Colombia.
    ANSWER: Medellin

20. It’s not in Turkey, but the dry environment of this region has helped preserve over a thousand tombs in
    the Astana Cemetery. This physical feature is crossed by the red sandstone “Flaming Mountains,” which
    are home to the Bezeklik Buddha Caves in the Mutou Valley and near the ruins of (+) Gaochang, a
    former Silk Road city. The Bogda Shan range is at one border of this physical feature, which is west of
    Hami and south of the (*) Gobi Desert. Lake Ayding, one of the lowest points on Earth, is southeast of Urumqi
    in, for the points, what “depression” in the Xinjiang region of China?
    ANSWER: Turpan Depression [prompt on Taklamakan Desert or Xinjiang]

21. In 1950, this city’s Telmex building was moved 40 feet while operators were working inside, as it had been
    blocking this city’s Juarez Avenue since 1927. This city’s weeklong film festival, held every March, is one
    of the most prestigious in Latin America, and it hosts the world’s largest Spanish book fair. The 2,000-
    foot deep (+) Oblatos Canyon was carved by the Rio Grande de Santiago northeast of this city, where
    Miguel Hidalgo established Mexico’s first revolutionary government in 1810. Lake (*) Chapala is just south
    of, for the points, what capital of Jalisco, which has the second-most-populous metropolitan area in Mexico?
    ANSWER: Guadalajara

22. This lake has more species of fish than any other lake, including the kampango catfish and up to a
    thousand cichlid species, also known as mbuna in one bordering country. A border dispute on this lake
    centers on the 1890 Heligoland-Zanzibar Treaty, after which jurisdiction over its waters was initially
    given to just one (+) British protectorate. Chimuzulu and Likoma are island exclaves in this lake, whose
    largest inflow is the Ruhuhu River of (*) Tanzania. Water from this lake feeds the Shire River, a tributary of
    the Zambezi. For the points, name this third-largest lake by area in Africa, the southernmost of the African Great
    Lakes.
    ANSWER: Lake Malawi

23. Ada Ciganlija, an island in this river, has been turned into a peninsula and is a popular beach and
    recreation area, and is just upstream from its confluence with a larger river near Great War Island. A
    destructive 1964 flood of this river led to the creation of a canal connecting it to the (+) Odra River. This
    river is navigable as far west as Sisak, and its tributaries include the (*) Drina, which forms the eastern
    border of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Zagreb is on, for the points, what largest tributary of the Danube by volume,
    a Balkan River that meets it at Belgrade?
    ANSWER: Sava River
24. Rain Room, an experimental art exhibit in which motion sensors prevent water from falling on visitors,
    has been permanently installed in this city’s Al Majarrah neighborhood. Many of this city’s prominent
    locations, including the Al Noor Mosque and Al Taqwa Mosque, surround its (+) Khalid Lake. Prior to
    2019, this city’s King Faisal Mosque was the largest in its country. This city’s Al Qasba Canal is
    overlooked by the Eye of the (*) Emirates, a 200-foot-tall Ferris wheel. For the points, name this third most
    populous city in the United Arab Emirates, which forms a metropolitan area with Ajman and Dubai.
    ANSWER: Sharjah

25. The Wankarani Culture developed northeast of this lake in what is now the Oruro Department. Silver
    and tin are mined east of this lake in the Cordillera Oriental, contributing to high levels of metal in its
    water. Lake (+) Coipasa, near a similarly-named salt flat, receives water from this lake via the
    Lacajahuira River. This lake (*) dried up in 1994, and again in 2016. Most of this now-dry lake’s water came
    from the Desaguadero River, an outflow of Lake Titicaca. For the points, name this lake in the Altiplano of
    Bolivia.
    ANSWER: Lake Poopo

26. Loren and Patty Upton spent two years traversing an inhospitable portion of this route in the 1980s. A
    proposed end to this route is known as the “Carretera Austral.” The Centennial Bridge has replaced the
    Bridge of the (+) Americas as an important crossing on this route, which is interrupted by a 70-mile strip
    of rainforest known as the (*) Darien Gap, preventing this route from being entirely continuous. For the
    points, name this “Highway” that runs from Alaska to Argentina.
    ANSWER: Pan-American Highway [accept Darien Gap before “Carretera Austral”]

27. The Ugab Gate restricts access to part of this region, which is home to the Himba people. This region
    takes its name from a John Henry Marsh book and was referred to by locals as “the Land God Made in
    Anger.” Its southern border is usually considered to be the (+) Swakop River, which is near a seal reserve
    at Cape Cross. The cassimbo fog, created by the cold Benguela Current, has led to shipwrecks along this
    region located to the north of (*) Walvis Bay between the South Atlantic and the Namib Desert. For the
    points, name this coastal region of southern Angola and northern Namibia.
    ANSWER: Skeleton Coast [prompt on Namib Desert before mention]

28. This place has three locations of the soul food restaurant Paschal’s, known for its fried chicken, and lies
    above the second-longest river in its state, the Flint. This place was originally named for Asa Candler, the
    founder of the (+) Coca-Cola company, and part of it extends above Interstate 285. This facility is
    partially in Hapeville and College Park, towns in Clayton and (*) Fulton Counties, and it has the tallest
    control tower in the United States. The southern terminus of the red and gold lines of MARTA is, for the points,
    what main hub of Delta Air Lines, the busiest passenger airport in the world?
    ANSWER: Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport [accept ATL]

29. In the 1860s, feral sheep lived on this territory’s island of Litla Dimun, which is north of its island of
    Suouroy. This territory’s town of Hoyvik was the site of a 2005 signing of a trade agreement with a
    country to this territory’s northwest. Incredibly, this archipelago was hit by Hurricane (+) Faith while
    still a tropical cyclone in 1966, which made that storm the northernmost hurricane in history. Eysturoy
    and Streymoy are the largest islands, and (*) Torshavn is the capital of, for the points, what Atlantic territory
    of Denmark?
    ANSWER: Faroe Islands
30. This island is home to the endangered kagu bird, which has an obscure Gondwanan lineage. The largest
    still-surviving species of fern is endemic to this territory, and it has the world’s longest continuous barrier
    reef. The Rally is a right-wing Pro-European political party in this territory, which has held two (+)
    independence referendums since 2018. Kanaks are the indigenous inhabitants of this territory, whose
    European residents are called Caldoches. The (*) Chesterfield Islands and the Loyalty Islands belong to this
    territory, whose main island is Grande Terre. Noumea is the capital of, for the points, what French overseas
    territory across the Coral Sea from Australia?
    ANSWER: New Caledonia

31. In 2007, a Chinese journalist filmed a video allegedly showing six monsters swimming in a lake on this
    mountain. Japanese records indicate that this mountain’s “Millenium Eruption” caused frosts and harsh
    colds in May 947. (+) Heaven Lake, the highest volcanic lake in the world, is a crater lake in a caldera
    atop this “sacred mountain (*) of the revolution.” Propaganda asserts that a double rainbow appeared when
    Kim Jong-il was born on, for the points, what mountain shared by China and North Korea?
    ANSWER: Mt. Paektu [accept Mt. Baekdu or Mt. Changbai]

32. Toutière is a French-Canadian variety of this item often eaten on Christmas and made with pork and
    potatoes. “Desperation” varieties of these items were made when other ingredients could not be found,
    and include vinegar and (+) green tomato. One of these items fried in peanut oil and named for
    Natchitoches (NACK-it-ush) is a state food of Louisiana. In England, meat topped with a layer of (*)
    mashed potatoes is the misleadingly-titled “cottage” variety of this item. For the points, name these food items
    often thrown in namesake competitions, and which are served with ice cream when à la mode.
    ANSWER: pies [accept meat pies]

33. Wildlife preservation efforts in this state include the Sariska Tiger Reserve and Ranthambore National
    Park. The Dilwara Temples are a Jain pilgrimage site near Mount Abu, or Guru Shikhar, in this state.
    The Chittor Fort, the former capital of (+) Mewar, and the Amber Fort, which lies just outside this state’s
    capital, are part of a series of UNESCO-protected “hill (*) forts” of this state. Due to the distinctive colors of
    their buildings, cities in this state are nicknamed “blue” and “pink.” Most of the Thar desert lies in this state,
    whose cities include Jodhpur and Jaipur. For the points, name this state northeast of Gujarat, the largest by area
    in India.
    ANSWER: Rajasthan

34. In this country, a natural nuclear reactor formed from uranium deposits in its region of Oklo. Michael
    Nichols took his photos of surfing hippos in this country’s Loango National Park, which has been termed
    “Africa’s Last Eden,” and is near the Ndogo and Iguela Lagoons. A failed 2019 coup in this country
    attempted to oust President Ali (+) Bongo, the son of President Omar Bongo who led this country for 42
    years. Most of this country is in the watershed of its Ogooué River, and it owns the southern portion of
    the (*) Muni estuary. The Fang language is spoken in Equatorial Guinea and, for the points, what country with
    capital Libreville?
    ANSWER: Gabonese Republic

35. Mount Fremont is a peak on the Sourdough Ridge in this National Park, which is circled by the 93-mile
    Wonderland Trail. The snowiest place in the U.S. is this park’s region of Paradise, which is still accessible
    in winter through this park’s original (+) Nisqually Entrance. Longmire and Sunrise are other visitors’
    centers in this park, the home of the Carbon and Emmons Glaciers. Climbers in this park may attempt to
    reach Little Tahoma Peak, Point Success, or (*) Columbia Crest, the most topographically prominent point in
    the contiguous U.S. This park is named for the tallest mountain in a range that also includes Mt. Hood and Mt.
    Saint Helens. For the points, name this National Park centered around the highest point in the Cascade Range.
    ANSWER: Mount Rainier National Park
EXTRA QUESTIONS:

The national emblem of this country, which includes two hands holding machetes on opposite sides of a
spear and shield, is carved into a mountain overlooking its city of Ali Sabieh. The volcano (+) Moussa Ali
is the highest point in this country, which contains most of the Grand Bara Desert and the Gulf of
Tadjoura. Because this country is positioned near several crucial (*) shipping lanes, it is home to Camp
Lemonnier of the U.S. Navy. Lake Assal, the lowest point in Africa, is in, for the points, what small country on
the Horn of Africa?
ANSWER: Republic of Djibouti

The Children of Creuse were a group of over a thousand children forced to move from this island to
France in the 1960s and 70s. 1.66 [one point six six] billion Euros were spent to build this island’s new
eight-mile “Coastal Road,” which has been slated to open in 2020. Due to the frequency of (+) shark
attacks off this island, it banned tourists from swimming in 2013. The first debris of (*) Malaysia Airlines
Flight 370 to be discovered was a flaperon that washed up on this island. Saint-Denis [sahnt den-ee] is the
capital of, for the points, what outermost area of the E.U., a department of France in the Indian Ocean?
ANSWER: Réunion

This island group’s Bogoslof Island began to form following an underwater volcanic eruption in 1796.
The natives of this island group built pit-based houses known as barabara, and their language is the
closest relative to the (*) Eskimo languages. Underground nuclear testing was conducted on this group’s
island of Amchitka. The Commander Islands are an extension of this archipelago belonging to (*) Russia,
and its islands of Kiska and Attu were once invaded by the Japanese. Unalaska is the largest town in, for the
points, what island chain extending west from the Alaskan Peninsula?
ANSWER: Aleutian Islands
