2020-21 Geography Bee Two - 2021-03-22                                   Geography Bee Two - Round 1



Geography Bee Two - Round 1
Round 1 tossups
(1)     This island's largest and oldest lake is Lake Biwa, which is named for its
resemblance to a certain instrument. Awaji Island is linked to this other island by a bridge
to the city of Kobe. This island's lowest point is Hachigorata and its highest point is Mt. Fuji.
This island is also home to the cities of Kyoto and Osaka. For the point, name this largest
island of Japan, which contains Tokyo.

ANSWER: Honshu

(2)     Bouvet Island, located in the Subantarctic, is a dependency of this country. Much of
this country's power comes from a dam on the River Glomma [[GLO-mah]], whose mouth
flows through the city of Fredrikstad. Though governed by this country, the Svalbard
archipelago is an unincorporated and visa-free jurisdiction. For the point, name this
kingdom whose border with Sweden runs along the Scandinavian Mountains.

ANSWER: Kingdom of Norway

(3)     One of these structures named for the Guarani people is located in southern Brazil
and is composed of Piramboia Formation sandstones. The Great Artesian Basin in Australia
is widely considered the largest one of these structures in the world. One of these structures
in the Great Plains is called Ogallala. For the point, name these layers of permeable
subsurface rock which act as reservoirs for fresh water.

ANSWER: Aquifers

(4)     One ethno-religion practiced by these people features a six-day pilgrimage to the
city of Lalish. The city of Erbil serves as the capital to a territory named for these people.
These Yazidi-practicing people have been the subject of a genocidal campaign by ISIL. For
the point, name this ethnic minority who are seeking to form an independent state in
northern Iraq and Syria.

ANSWER: Kurds (or Kurdish People)

(5)      This city is served by the world's largest desalination plant at the port of Jebel Ali.
This city's The Palm hotel notably has underwater rooms. This city is home to archipelagos
of artificial islands shaped like a map of the world. This city is home to the tallest skyscraper
in the world, which is known as the Burj [this city]. For the point, name this most populous
city in the United Arab Emirates.

ANSWER: Dubai
2020-21 Geography Bee Two - 2021-03-22                                 Geography Bee Two - Round 1


(6)     In this country in 1974, Jane Goodall discovered an ongoing "war" between
chimpanzee tribes in the Gombe Stream National Park. This country's Ngorongoro [[en-gor-
on-GOR-oh]] Conservation Area is home to the Olduvai Gorge, a ravine spanning 50
kilometers of the Great Rift Valley. This country is home to the highest mountain in Africa,
Mount Kilimanjaro. For the point, name this East African country whose largest city is Dar
es Salaam.

ANSWER: United Republic of Tanzania

(7)    Cities on this body of water include Sundsvall and Vaasa, on this body of water's
northern arm, the Gulf of Bothnia. 114 miles of Russian coastline touch this body of water
by way of the Kaliningrad Oblast. This body of water's name is also used to refer collectively
to the former Soviet states of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. For the point, name this
northern European body of water spanning from Denmark to Finland.

ANSWER: Baltic Sea

(8)     One type of these structures named for Grove Karl Gilbert consists of coarse
sediments and most commonly forms near freshwater lakes. When these structures are
composed of high amounts of gravel, they can form namesake "braids." When these
structures cause stream splitting, they are referred to as a "bird's foot." For the point, name
these triangular regions formed from deposited sediment where a river discharges into a
lake or ocean.

ANSWER: River Delta

(9)     This island contains Mt. Tuba, which is in the Barisan Mountains, and this island's
highest point is Mt. Kerinci [[keh-RIN-chee]]. The northern end of this island is home to the
province of Aceh [[AH-cheh]]. This island is separated from the Malay Peninsula by the
Straits of Malacca and is separated from Java in the south by the Sunda Strait. For the point,
name this westernmost of the major Indonesian islands.

ANSWER: Sumatra

(10) The coast of this state was first mapped in 1592 by Juan de Fuca, including the strait
that now bears his name. This state hosts part of the Cascade Volcanic Arc, including Mount
Jefferson, Mount Hood, and the Three Sisters. Seventy percent of this state's population lives
in the Willamette Valley, which stretches from Newberg to Eugene. For the point, name this
West Coast state whose largest city is Portland.

ANSWER: Oregon
2020-21 Geography Bee Two - 2021-03-22                                 Geography Bee Two - Round 1


(11) This region is located between the Pir Panjal [[peer pahn-JAHL]] and Karakoram
Ranges, and one portion of this region is administered from the city of Muzaffarabad. The
southern and eastern portion of this region is administered with Jammu from the city of
Srinagar. For the point, name this region which is the subject of an ongoing territorial
dispute between China, India, and Pakistan.

ANSWER: Kashmir

(12) This province contains the Shakespeare and Caribou Islands, both located on Lake
Nipigon [[NIP-ih-gun]]. This province contains Point Pelee [[PEE-lee]], the southernmost
point in mainland Canada, and the city of Windsor, which lies across the Detroit River from
Michigan. For the point, name this most populous province of Canada, home to the cities of
Ottawa and Toronto.

ANSWER: Ontario

(13) The Hauran Plateau is linked to this river's drainage basin by the Yarmouk River.
This river's northern course passes through the Hula Valley after receiving water from Mt.
Hermon. Most of this river's course runs from the Sea of Galilee to the Dead Sea. For the
point, name this Middle Eastern river which separates Israel and the West Bank from a
namesake country whose capital is Amman.

ANSWER: Jordan River (or River Jordan)

(14) This lake's sole outflow is the Angara River, which becomes a tributary to the
Yenisei, and this lake's primary inflow is the Selenga. The Mongol Buryat people have
historically been based around this lake, which sits on the border of the Irkutsk Oblast. This
rift lake is considered to be the oldest lake on Earth. For the point, name this Siberian Lake,
the deepest in the world.

ANSWER: Lake Baikal

(15) This river's namesake gulf includes Anticosti Island and an island governed from
Charlottetown. This river forms an estuary between the mainland and the Gaspe [[gahs-
PAY]] Peninsula. This river's confluence with the Ottawa River contains Lake St. Louis, and
this river forms the northern border between New York and Canada. For the point, name
this river which flows from Lake Ontario through Montreal and Quebec City.

ANSWER: St. Lawrence River (or Fleuve St. Laurent; or St. Laurent River)

(16) This country's department of Alto Paraná is home to the Saltos del Monday, or
Monday's Waterfall. This country is the smaller of the two countries controlling the Itaipu
Dam. This country's namesake river flows from Mato Grosso, Brazil to the Paraná [[para-
NAH]] River. This country and Bolivia are the only landlocked countries in South America.
For the point, name this country governed from Asunción.

ANSWER: Republic of Paraguay
2020-21 Geography Bee Two - 2021-03-22                                   Geography Bee Two - Round 1


(17) This city is home to the Radcliffe Camera, a neoclassical ribbed tower which is
located north of this city's Church of St. Mary the Virgin. In an early example of "town and
gown" conflict, this city was home to the St. Scholastica Day riot. Home to the oldest English-
speaking university in the world, for the point, what is this British university town, the site
of Cambridge's rival school?

ANSWER: Oxford

(18) One tributary of this river is home to Boyoma Falls, a series of small waterfalls that
extend for over sixty miles. This river is sourced from the Lualaba River, whose waters
originate in the mountains of the East African Rift. This river lends its name to two countries
whose capitals are Brazzaville and Kinshasa. For the point, name this Central African river
formerly known as the Zaire.

ANSWER: Congo River (accept Zaire River before mentioned)

(19) This city's neighborhood of Santa Cruz is home to the historic Catholic center named
Willingdon Colony. This city primarily rests on the island of Salsette, and, to commemorate
the arrival of King George V in this city, the Gateway to India was constructed. This largest
city in Maharashtra is the center of the Bollywood film industry. For the point, name this
largest city in India, which was formerly called Bombay.

ANSWER: Mumbai (accept Bombay before mentioned)

(20) The Dalai Lama claims that he helped end this country's alcoholism problems by
encouraging the people to drink camel milk instead of vodka. The majority of this country's
population practice Tengrism and Tibetan Buddhism. This country, which lies south of
Tuva, contains most of the Gobi Desert. For the point, name this Asian country located
between China and Russia, whose capital is Ulaanbaatar.

ANSWER: Mongolia

(21) This island's highest point is Mount Ossa, which is part of the Pellion Range. This
island's north coast is formed by the Bass Strait, and the extinct thylacine is often referred to
as this island's "tiger." Other native carnivorous marsupials on this island include this
island's namesake "devil." For the point, name this island located just south of mainland
Australia, whose capital city is Hobart.

ANSWER: Tasmania

(22) In 1999, the mummified remains of three children were found at the summit of
Llullaillaco [[yu-yai-YAH-coh]], the seventh tallest mountain in this range. Mount
Chimborazo is the highest peak in this range's Cordillera Occidental region. This range hosts
the highest navigable lake in the world, Lake Titicaca. For the point, name this South
American mountain range which spans seven countries from Venezuela to Argentina.

ANSWER: Andes Mountains (accept Andean Mountains)
2020-21 Geography Bee Two - 2021-03-22                                  Geography Bee Two - Round 1


(23) One of these structures whose construction started during the Sui [[SWEE]] Dynasty
links the cities of Tianjin and Hangzhou [[HAHNG-ZHOH]], and is known as the "Grand" one
of these. Nasser's nationalization of one of these structures in Egypt launched a namesake
crisis. For the point, name these structures which link bodies of water, which include an
example linking the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans in Panama.

ANSWER: canals (accept Grand Canal; accept Suez Canal; accept Panama Canal)

(24) The southern portion of this landmark is divided by the Goat and Luna Islands. The
Rainbow Bridge is a transnational bridge linking two cities named for this landmark. The
New York portion of this landmark includes Bridal Veil Falls, while the Canadian portion of
this landmark is called the Horseshoe Falls. For the point, name these waterfalls which sit
on a namesake river along the U.S.-Canada border.

ANSWER: Niagara Falls

(25) This country's city of Monterrey is located in the foothills of the Sierra Madre
Oriental mountains. This country's third most populous city is Ecatepec [[eh-KAH-teh-
peck]]. Major resort cities in this country include Cabo San Lucas and Cancún, the latter of
which rests on the Yucatán Peninsula. For the point, name this North American country
bordering the southern United States.

ANSWER: Mexico (or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos; prompt on
"EUM")

(26) One variety of this crop is produced and named for the Kona region of the Big Island
of Hawaii. One variety of this crop originating in Yemen is named Arabica [[ah-RAB-ih-cah]].
The Yemeni port of Mocha [[MOH-kah]] was the source of a type of this crop grown in Java
by Dutch colonists. For the point, name this crop whose "beans" are ground up to make a
caffeinated beverage sold at Starbucks.

ANSWER: coffee

(27) The Minho [[MEEN-yoo]] River comprises approximately fifty miles of this country's
northern border. The Douro [[DOO-roh]] River valley is famous for producing a common
variety of fortified wine named after this country. This country's capital and largest city lies
at the mouth of the river Tagus, along whose banks the Praça do Comércio [[PRAH-sah doo-
koh-MEHR-syoo]] sits. For the point, name this westernmost European country, a neighbor
of Spain.

ANSWER: Portugal (or Portuguese Republic)
2020-21 Geography Bee Two - 2021-03-22                                Geography Bee Two - Round 1


(28) This country's "Cradle of Humankind" was named for its supply of ancient hominid
skeletons. The Drakensberg, a portion of this country's Great Escarpment, stretches over
600 miles from the Eastern Cape to KwaZulu-Natal. This country's port of Durban hosts
cruise ships that travel regionally to Mauritius. For the point, name this African country
whose three capitals are Bloemfontein, Pretoria, and Cape Town.

ANSWER: Republic of South Africa (accept RSA)

(29) This city is home to the Monument to the Conquerors of Space, a 107-meter tall
titanium obelisk, as well as the stainless steel sculpture Worker and Kolkhoz Woman. Of the
ten tallest buildings in Europe, this city has seven, including Federation Tower and OKO
[[OH-koh]]. This city's major roads form a series of concentric rings centered on Red
Square. For the point, name this capital and largest city in Russia.

ANSWER: Moscow (or Moskva)

(30) This city's Millennium Park is home to the Anish Kapoor sculpture Cloud Gate,
sometimes referred to as "The Bean." In 2009, this city's tallest skyscraper, at one point the
tallest in the world, changed its name to Willis Tower. This city's sports stadiums include
Soldier Field and Wrigley Field, home to the Bears and the Cubs respectively. For the point,
name this city, the largest in Illinois.

ANSWER: Chicago
2020-21 Geography Bee Two - 2021-03-22                             Geography Bee Two - Round 1


Extra Question
(1)     This country's island of Palawan is separated from the rest of the country by the
Huxley Line. This country's central islands are collectively known as the Visayas. This
country's southern island of Mindanao is home to the majority of the mostly Islamic Moro
people. This country's largest and most populous island is Luzon. For the point, name this
southeast Asian island nation whose capital is Manila.

ANSWER: Republic of the Philippines
