2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                                Round 5



(E) Geography Bee Round 5
Regulation Tossups
(1)     This city is surrounded by its country's Pool Department, named for a natural
feature that includes Mbamou Island. This city was the capital of French Equatorial Africa,
and a railroad connects Pointe-Noire to this city to bypass Livingstone Falls. Connected to
Kinshasa by ferry, for the point, what is this capital of the Republic of the Congo?

ANSWER: Brazzaville

(2)      A U.S. military commander described recent activities on this archipelago's Mischief
and Subi Reefs as the creation of a "Great Wall of Sand." The "nine-dash line" claims the
entirety of this archipelago which is also claimed by other countries including Vietnam. For
the point, name this disputed South China Sea archipelago, known for its many artificial
islands.

ANSWER: Spratly Islands

(3)     This mountain, that overlooks the towns of Weed and Yreka [["why"-REE-kah]],
forms a major protected area with Trinity National Forest. This mountain, home to Whitney
Glacier, is occasionally visible from the Central Valley. For the point, name this second-
highest peak in the Cascades, located in Northern California.

ANSWER: Mount Shasta

(4)     This city's Euromast tower overlooks the Cube Houses and the Erasmus Bridge,
which crosses the Nieuwe Maas [[NYOO-veh MAHSS]]. This city in the Rhine River Delta
contains the world's busiest port outside of Asia. Forming an urban area with the Hague, for
the point, what is this major Dutch port?

ANSWER: Rotterdam

(5)    This body of water, whose ports include Marinette and Escanaba, is enclosed by the
Garden and Door Peninsulas. Lake Winnebago feeds this bay via the Fox River, which flows
through its namesake city. For the point, name this bay that shares its name with the third-
most populous city in Wisconsin.

ANSWER: Green Bay (prompt on "Lake Michigan")

(6)    A tri-point boundary at this river's confluence with the Ruak contains the Hall of
Opium, dedicated to the history of the drug in Chiang Rai, part of a region called the "Golden
Triangle." This river forms much of the Thai-Lao boundary. For the point, name this river
that empties into the South China Sea south of Ho Chi Minh City.

ANSWER: Mekong River
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                               Round 5


(7)     Once known as the Catherine Archipelago, this island chain includes Rat Island,
ironically now rat-free due to a US eradication program in the 2010s. These islands, which
were invaded and temporarily occupied by the Japanese, include one island named for
Danish-born Russian explorer Vitus Bering. For the point, name this island chain off the
coast of the US state of Alaska.

ANSWER: Aleutian Islands (or Aleut Islands; or Aleutic Islands; or Aleuts)

(8)    This island's port Ryde is connected to the mainland by the Red Funnel and
Hovertravel ferries. This island, home to the Osborne House, the retreat and death site of
Queen Victoria, is separated by the Solent from mainland ports in Hampshire like
Portsmouth and Southampton. For the point, name this largest offshore island in England.

ANSWER: Isle of Wight

(9)     This country is nicknamed the "Warm Heart of Africa" for the friendliness of its
people, the plurality of whom are Chewa. This country's city of Blantyre was named after
David Livingstone's birthplace, and this country disputes the shoreline of Lake Nyasa with
Tanzania. For the point, name this landlocked African country that protrudes into
Mozambique, governed from Lilongwe.

ANSWER: Republic of Malawi (accept Dziko la Malawi)

(10) Edward Whymper led the first climb of this mountain in 1865, which ended in
tragedy when four of his seven men died, ending the "Golden age of Alpinism." This
mountain allegedly inspired the shape of Toblerone chocolates. For the point, name this
iconic Alpine peak between Italy and Switzerland, known for its pyramidal shape.

ANSWER: Matterhorn (or Cervino)

(11) This country's flag displays 15 stars representing its 15 islands on a blue ensign
with a British canton. This country’s capital of Avarua lies on Rarotonga. One of the two
countries in "free association" with New Zealand along with Niue, for the point, what is this
island country named for a British explorer?

ANSWER: Cook Islands (accept Kūki 'Āirani; prompt on "New Zealand" before mentioned)

(12) This country displays a gear wheel and a machete on its red and black flag. This
country's oil-rich exclave of Cabinda is located between two countries named for the Congo
River. For the point, name this Portuguese-speaking African country governed from Luanda.

ANSWER: Republic of Angola (or Republica de Angola)
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                                  Round 5


(13) Christopher Columbus spent time on this island’s Porto Santo, where he got
married. This archipelago, which includes the Desertas and Savage Islands, was first
encountered by Prince Henry the Navigator in 1419, widely considered the first discovery
of the Age of Discovery. With its capital at Funchal, for the point, what is this autonomous
region of Portugal?

ANSWER: Autonomous Region of Madeira (or Região Autónoma da Madeira)

(14) This company has its headquarters at Al Garhoud and operates its cargo operations
out of the Al Maktoum International Airport in Jebel Ali. This airline exclusively owns
Boeing 777 and Airbus A380 Aircraft, being the largest operator of each, and operates no
domestic flights. For the point, name this Dubai-based airline that shares its name with its
home country.

ANSWER: Emirates Airlines (accept United Arab Emirates; accept Emirates Stadium; do
not accept or prompt on Etihad Airways)

(15) This territory claims the remote Hans Island, disputed with Denmark, where there is
a tradition of leaving either schnapps or whisky to claim sovereignty. This territory borders
Manitoba and the Northwest Territories. For the point, name this Canadian territory
governed from Iqaluit [[ee-KAL-oo-it]] on Baffin Island, mostly inhabited by the Inuit.

ANSWER: Nunavut

(16) This mountain is most commonly ascended via the Polish Glacier. The closest other
mountain to this mountain that is higher than it is Tirich Mir, at a distance of over 10,000
miles. This mountain is the highest in the Southern Hemisphere and is located near the
Chile-Argentina border. For the point, name this highest mountain of South America.

ANSWER: Aconcagua

(17) A Buddhist temple called Bayon in this country was built by Jayavarman VII [[the
Seventh]]. A temple in this country that contains five towers symbolizing the peaks of
Mount Meru was built by Suryavarman II. The largest religious monument in the world,
which is featured on this country's flag, was built by the Khmer Empire. For the point, name
this Asian country, home to Angkor Wat.

ANSWER: Kingdom of Cambodia (or Preahreacheanachakr Kampuchea)

(18) This city sits on the Ogun River, a holy site in the Yoruba religion, and the Gulf of
Guinea. This city is the site of the NECOM House, the tallest building in Nigeria. This city was
the capital of Nigeria until its move to Abuja [[ah-BOO-jah]] in 1991. For the point, name
this most-populous city in Nigeria.

ANSWER: Lagos (or Èkó)
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                                 Round 5


(19) This U.S. state's Wind River Range contains the highest peak of the Rockies outside
Colorado. Oil near this state's Teapot Dome was sold via the bribery of the Harding Cabinet,
and this state's Fort Laramie was the site of two treaties between the U.S. and Native
American tribes. The ski resort Jackson Hole is a gateway to Grand Teton National Park in,
for the point, what rectangular U.S. state that is home to Cheyenne?

ANSWER: Wyoming

(20) The C-2 Visa's restricted travel zone covers a 25-mile radius from this intersection,
home to the USS Maine National Monument. This intersection contains a replica of the
Unisphere in front of its Trump International Hotel and Tower, address One Central Park
West. Lying at the intersection of Eighth Avenue and Broadway, for the point, what is this
New York circle named for a Genoese sailor?

ANSWER: Columbus Circle

(21) This location was established through the efforts of Ahmet Ertegun [[EHR-teh-gun]],
one of the founders of Atlantic Records. This location contains a section called The Garage,
as well as a "Backstage Stories" exhibit. Chuck Berry and Pete Townshend of The Who broke
ground at, for the point, what I.M. Pei-designed music museum that celebrates inductees of
a certain genre?

ANSWER: Rock and Roll Hall of Fame (accept RRHOF; accept Rock Hall)

(22) The "head" and "tail" of this type of animal name two peninsulas on opposite sides
of New Guinea. Papua New Guinea displays the Raggiana variant of "[this animal] of
paradise" on its flag. Brasilia's shape is often likened to one of these animals, which include
species like quetzals and albatrosses. For the point, name these animals, present on the flags
of Louisiana, Egypt, and Mexico.

ANSWER: Birds (accept Aves; accept Bird's Head Peninsula; accept Bird's Tail Peninsula;
accept Bird-of-Paradise; do not accept or prompt on other types of birds)

(23) This country's town of Gyrmyzy Gasaba [[gehr-meh-ZEH gah-sah-BAH]] is the only
all-Jewish settlement outside of Israel or the U.S. 6000 rock paintings and many mud
volcanoes are protected in this country's Gobustan National Park. This country, home to the
world's lowest national capital, is the northernmost with a Shi'a majority. For the point,
name this country between Iran and Russia.

ANSWER: Republic of Azerbaijan (accept Azarbaycan Respublikasi)
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                                   Round 5


(24) One of this city’s nicknames, “The City of a Hundred Steeples,” is derived from its
proliferation of churches, including four Roman Catholic basilicas. At its founding, this
Canadian city was named Ville-Marie but later came to be named for a small mountain in
the center of the city. For the point, name this most populous city in the Canadian province
of Quebec.

ANSWER: Montreal

(25) This city's Qutb [[KUHT-buh]] Minar was inspired by the Minaret of Jam, and its
Lotus Temple is a Baha'i House of Worship known for its flower-like shape. This city on the
Yamuna River implemented a lockdown in 2021 due to its air pollution and was formerly
the capital of the Mughal Empire. For the point, name this capital of India.

ANSWER: New Delhi (or Naī Dillī)



Extra Questions
(1)      The Coptic Church lays claim to the patriarchy of this city, where Ibn Battua twice
visited the crumbling Pharos Lighthouse, one of the Seven Ancient Wonders of the World.
This city's library was built by Ptolemy the Great and contained 400 thousand papyrus
scrolls at its peak. For the point, name this largest city of Egypt outside the Cairo metro area.

ANSWER: Alexandria

(2)     The Lomonosov Ridge divides a basin in this body of water, and marginal seas in
this body of water include the Chukchi and the Barents. Major port cities bordering this
body of water include Murmansk and Arkhangelsk, and walruses and polar bears can be
found on ice floes in this body of water. For the point, name this smallest and shallowest of
the Earth's oceans.

ANSWER: Arctic Ocean (accept Arctic Mediterranean Sea)
