  2018 Intl. Geography Bee US Middle School & Elementary National Championships
                                      Finals

1. This city’s Soccer City Stadium was built for the 2010 World Cup. This city is the center of the Witwatersrand region,
and Soweto, a township that was formerly separate from this city, is now part of it. This city is the capital of Gauteng
Province. Although it is not one of its country’s three capitals, this city is the largest by population in its country. For the
point, name this economic center of South Africa.
ANSWER: ​Johannesburg

2. One tribe in this island chain has refused contact by such methods as firing arrows at helicopters. This island chain
shares its name with a sea that flooded resort centers such as Khao Lak and Phuket during the Boxing Day Tsunami. This
island chain’s city of Port Blair was the capital of Satyendra Bose’s Azad Hind government. This island chain contains
North Sentinel Island, and is paired with the Nicobar Islands in the name of an Indian territory. For the point, name this
island chain whose namesake sea separates them from Myanmar and Thailand.
ANSWER: ​Andaman​ Islands

3. This country contains an island known for its swimming pigs in its Exuma chain. This country’s islands include
Mayaguana and Great Inagua, and this country’s largest island is Andros. This country’s capital is located on New
Providence Island. This country contains Columbus’ initial landing site at San Salvador, and this country is located just
North of the Turks and Caicos Islands. For the point, name this Caribbean country with its capital at Nassau.
ANSWER: the ​Bahamas

4. This city lies at the confluence of the Bow and Elbow Rivers, and one sports team in this city plays at the Saddledome.
This city’s Olympic Park was built for the 1988 Winter Olympics, which it hosted. The city of Red Deer lies in the center
of a statistical corridor named for this city and Edmonton, and this city hosts an annual rodeo known as its namesake
“Stampede”. The largest city in Alberta is, for the point, what Canadian city?
ANSWER: ​Calgary

5. The distance between this city and Syene was used by Eratosthenes to measure the earth’s circumference, and a
Venetian expedition stole the relics of St. Mark from this city. This city’s tallest building for centuries was located on its
Pharos Island, and scholars including Hypatia worked at a large classical library in this city. For the point, name this
Egyptian city founded by a Macedonian conqueror and located on the Mediterranean Sea.
ANSWER: ​Alexandria

6. Restaurants such as Commander’s Palace and Antoine’s are part of this city’s culinary heritage which also includes
beignets and coffee with chicory which can be ordered at its Cafe du Monde. This city’s Congo Square was formerly the
site of slave auctions, while its Jackson Square was the site of a widely-panned presidential speech in 2005. Revelers in
this city can hire bands to follow them around this city in a tradition known as a second line. This city’s Lower Ninth
Ward bore the brunt of a natural disaster that struck this city, which overwhelmed levees near Lake Pontchartrain. This
city is served by Louis Armstrong International Airport. For the point, name this largest city in Louisiana.
ANSWER: ​New Orleans
                                                                                            International Geography Bee
                                                                                                   Round 7 - Page 2 of 6
7. The city of Ciudad Ojeda is located on this lake’s shores, and the phenomenon known as Catatumbo Lightning strikes
almost continuously over this lake. This lake is located South of the Guajira Peninsula, and this lake’s namesake city is the
second-largest in its country, after Caracas. For the point, name this brackish lake connected to the Gulf of Venezuela, one
of the largest in South America.
ANSWER: Lake ​Maracaibo

8. The Yaqui and Tohono O’Odham people are native to this desert, and the cities of Guaymas and Hermosillo are among
the largest in this desert. A sub-desert of this desert is the Yuma Desert, and Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument is
located in this desert, to which the Gila Monster is native. This desert’s namesake Mexican state is located south of
Tucson, Arizona. For the point, name this desert in the American southwest.
ANSWER: ​Sonoran​ Desert

9. The island of Burano, which is famous for its lace-making, can be found in a city at the northern end of this sea. This
body of water’s medieval centers of trade included Durazzo and Ragusa. Winston Churchill referenced this body of
water’s port of Trieste along with “Stettin on the Baltic” in his “Iron Curtain” speech, and the Venetian trading empire
was based in this body of water. For the point, name this arm of the Mediterranean that borders countries including Italy,
Croatia, and Slovenia.
ANSWER: ​Adriatic ​Sea

10. A boundary dispute over the headwaters of this river led to the creation of the Republic of Indian Stream. This river’s
source is found just several hundred yards south of a national border near the town of Chartierville. The White River flows
into it near White River Junction across from the town of Hanover on its eastern bank. This river flows past the Basketball
Hall of Fame in Springfield after forming the Vermont-New Hampshire border. This river flows into the ocean between its
namesake state’s cities of Lyme and Saybrook, which lie on Long Island Sound. For the point, name this river that flows
through Hartford.
ANSWER: ​Connecticut​ River

11. This route was defended during a civil war by the Czech Legion of Alexander Kolchak. The cities of Chita and
Ulan-Ude grew after their placement along this route. A section of this route was supplemented by the Baikal-Amur
Mainline, and this route was commissioned by Nicholas I after a visit to the city of Vladivostok, one of this route’s two
terminuses. For the point, name this route that crosses a namesake Russian region from Moscow.
ANSWER: ​Trans-Siberian​ Railway

12. This tribe’s current lands are centered on the city of Tahlequah, and this tribe’s lands were at issue in the supreme
court case of ​Worcester v. Georgia.​ This tribe writes using a syllabary developed by Sequoyah, and this tribe lived in
Northern Georgia before a movement to Oklahoma. Along with the Chickasaw, Choctaw, Creek, and Seminole, this tribe
was one of the “Five Civilized Tribes”. For the point, name this tribe removed from their homeland in the Trail of Tears.
ANSWER: ​Cherokee

13. This region’s city of Hotan was an important stop along the Silk Road, and this region is often divided into the
subregions of Dzungaria and the Tarim Basin, which contains its largest lake, Lop Nur. This region’s East Turkestan
Islamic Movement seeks its independence, and this region is the primary location of the Tien Shan and Altun Shan
mountain ranges. For the point, name this autonomous region in Western China, the home of the Uighurs.
ANSWER: ​Xinjiang​ Uyghur Autonomous Region (prompt on ​Uyghur​ autonomous region before mention)
                                                                                               International Geography Bee
                                                                                                      Round 7 - Page 3 of 6
14. The Zangezur Mountains form a border between an autonomous region in this country and the province of Syunik in
another. The Heydar Aliyev Center in this country was designed by Zaha Hadid, and the world’s first oil well was drilled
off this country’s capital. This country controls the exclave of Nakhchivan, and the city of Stepanakert is located in
Nagorno-Karabakh, a region disputed between this country and its neighbor, Armenia. For the point, name this country
located at the Eastern end of the Caucasus Mountains that has its capital at Baku
ANSWER: ​Azerbaijan

15. This state was the setting of ​Salvation on Stone Mountain​, an examination of its rural snake-handling churches. The
Edmund Pettus Bridge crosses this state’s namesake river, and this state contains the Marshall Space Flight Center. This
state’s Eastern border is formed by the Chattahoochee River, and David Farragut won a victory in a Civil War battle in
this state’s Mobile Bay. A Civil Rights march in this state started in its city of Selma, and this state contains the cities of
Dothan, Huntsville, and Birmingham. For the point, name this Southeastern state with its capital at Montgomery.
ANSWER: ​Alabama

16. This region is connected to the Eurasian mainland by the Isthmus of Perekop. The city of Feodosia, formerly known as
Cafa, is a former Greek and Genoese colony in this region. The Gulf of Kerch borders this region, and the recent
construction of a bridge over the Strait of Kerch to this region had geopolitical implications. This region’s city of
Sevastopol was the target of a British and French siege during this region’s namesake 1850s war. For the point, name this
region annexed by Russia from Ukraine in 2014.
ANSWER: ​Crimea

17. Five Cowrie Creek separates this city from its neighborhood of Victoria Island, and this city is the center of the
Nollywood film industry. This city is located on a namesake lagoon, and a narrow sandspit separates it from the Bight of
Benin. This city was once a country’s capital before it was moved to Abuja. For the point, name this largest city in Africa,
an Atlantic port located in Nigeria.
ANSWER: ​Lagos

18. The Crown Heights Riots took place in this area after an orthodox rabbi’s motorcade struck an African-American
child. This area was the subject of the drama film ​The Lords of Flatbush​ while its Park Slope neighborhood has gentrified
in recent decades. Coney Island is located in this borough, and a team based in this borough broke the color line by
signing Jackie Robinson. This borough is located southwest of Queens. For the point, name this New York borough that is
not Staten Island, Manhattan, or the Bronx.
ANSWER: ​Brooklyn

19. This body of water is bordered to the North by the Kotzebue Sound. This body of water is the location of Big and
Little Diomede Islands, and this body of water separates the homeland of the Chukchi people from the Seward Peninsula.
This body of water is named for a Danish explorer who also names an Arctic sea, and a land-bridge across this body of
water may have allowed the peopling of the Americas. For the point, name this body of water that separates Alaska and
Russia.
ANSWER: ​Bering Strait​ (do NOT accept Bering Sea)

20. This mountain range contains the region of Badakhshan, and Tirch Mir and Nowshak are its highest peaks. This
mountain range also contains the Wakhan Corridor, which remains a critical habitat for the snow leopard. The Khyber
Pass goes through this mountain range, and this mountain range’s peaks overlook cities such as Peshawar, Bamiyan, and
Kabul. For the point, name this mountain range that straddles the Afghanistan-Pakistan border and is named for its
proximity to India.
                                                                                              International Geography Bee
                                                                                                     Round 7 - Page 4 of 6
ANSWER: ​Hindu Kush

21. This country is home to the former Portuguese fort of Elmina. The War of the Golden Stool was ended when a British
force captured this country’s city of Kumasi. This country’s Akosombo Dam forms the world’s largest artificial lake, Lake
Volta. This country’s Ashanti Empire was absorbed into the British colony of the Gold Coast. The capital city of Accra
lies on the Gulf of Guinea in, for the point, what West African country?
ANSWER: ​Ghana

22. The namesake of this city won the Siege of Bexar, and this city’s South Congress Bridge is a popular migration
stopover for Mexican free-tailed bats. PBS has broadcasted a popular music show titled for this city’s city limits, and this
city in Travis County hosts the annual South by Southwest Festival. This city succeeded Washington-on-the-Brazos as the
capital of a Republic governed by Mirabeau Lamar and Sam Houston. For the point, name this capital of Texas.
ANSWER: ​Austin

23. This holiday’s celebrations were featured at the beginning of the most recent James Bond film. This holiday may
derive from one celebrating the goddess Mictecacihuatl, and marigolds are a flower traditionally associated with this
holiday. ​Calaveras​ and ​ofrendas​ are used in the celebration of this holiday, which traditionally takes place on the two
days surrounding All Saints’ Day. This holiday is celebrated using candied skulls to honor the memory of deceased
ancestors. For the point, name this traditional Mexican holiday.
ANSWER: ​Day of the Dead​ (accept ​Dia de los Muertos​)

24. John McCrae wrote the most famous poem about this region which can be considered an elegy to soldiers who died
there. This region contains the province of Limburg, and the cities of Ypres, Ghent, and Bruges were the centers of this
region’s cloth industry in the middle ages. This region is represented by the nationalist party Vlaams Belang, and this
region makes up a country with the French-speaking region of Wallonia. The city of Antwerp is the largest in, for the
point, what Dutch-speaking region of Belgium?
ANSWER: ​Flanders​ (accept ​Vlanderen​ - prompt on Belgium before country in line 4)

25. A heavily Finnish-influenced dialect of English is spoken in this region. The ​Edmund Fitzgerald​ sank off this
landform near Whitefish Bay, and this region contains the copper-rich Keweenaw Peninsula. This region is the Northern
terminus of the Mackinac (Mack-i-naw) bridge, and this region’s largest city is Marquette. This region was part of the
Wisconsin Territory before it was traded to its current state after the Toledo War. For the point, name this region, the
Northernmost part of a state with its capital at Lansing.
ANSWER: ​U​pper ​P​eninsula (prompt on Michigan)

26. This landmark shares a national park with the sacred site sometimes known as the Olgas but more commonly called
Kata Tjuta. This landmark’s ritual significance has led to a decline in climbing it, and the Pitjantjatjara (Pid-din-jar-a)
Aborigines revere this site. This landmark can be reached by road from the nearest town of Alice Springs. For the point,
name this large rock formation in Australia’s Northern Territory alternatively known as Ayers Rock.
ANSWER: ​Uluru​ (accept ​Ayers Rock​ before mention)

27. This ethnic group is divided into “Green” and “White” branches that have an ongoing dispute over how to spell its
name. Members of this ethnic group, including General Vang Pao, were key opponents of Communist guerrilla
movements such as the Pathet Lao and Viet Cong and a community of this ethnic group has settled in and near
Minneapolis over the past few decades. This ethnic group largely inhabits mountainous regions of Laos, Vietnam, and
Thailand. For the point, name this ethnic group also known as the Miao.
                                                                                             International Geography Bee
                                                                                                    Round 7 - Page 5 of 6
ANSWER: ​Hmong​ (accept ​Hmoob​, ​Mong​, prompt on ​Miao​)

28. This desert contains the Makgadikgadi Salt Pan, and a species of antelope, the gemsbok, names two national parks that
straddle the border of two countries in this desert. This desert contains the biodiversity hotspot of the Okavango Delta. It’s
not the Namib Desert, but the cities of Windhoek and Gaborone are located on the edge of this desert. For the point, name
this desert in Southern Africa that covers much of Botswana.
ANSWER: ​Kalahari​ Desert



29. This city was built on the site of the Swedish fortress of Nyenskans (Nigh-ens-kahns) while its country did not control
the land it stands on. This city contains a statue called the Bronze Horseman, and its Nevsky Prospekt is the namesake of a
short story collection by Nikolai Gogol. This city was renamed Petrograd and later Leningrad after the Soviet Union was
formed. For the point, name this Russian city on the Baltic Sea named for a “Great” czar.
ANSWER: ​St. Petersburg​ (accept ​Petrograd​ before mention)

30. One of these landforms contains portions such as Booth’s Amphitheatre and Ole Bull’s Concert Hall. One of these
landforms now named for Mark Twain was the inspiration for the final scene of ​Tom Sawyer.​ Karst topography is often
found near these locations and Wind and Mammoth are among these landforms that are the namesakes of national parks.
Stalagmites and Stalactites are often found in, for the point, what underground chambers?
ANSWER: ​caves ​(accept ​caverns​)

STOP HERE! Tiebreakers Follow

31. This city is the location of the newly built Elbphilharmonie, and protests over a G-20 summit in this city turned violent
in July 2017. It’s not Bremen, but this city’s charter officially designates it a “Free and Hanseatic City”. This city is
located where the Elbe River flows into the North Sea, and a food named for this city was originally known as its
namesake “steak”. This city is Germany’s largest coastal city. For the point, name this North German City that has a
McDonalds staple named for it.
ANSWER: ​Hamburg

32. This country’s capital recently hosted a convention aimed at banning several harmful classes of refrigerants. Dian
Fossey studied gorillas in this country’s Kagera National Park, and this country is at the Eastern end of Lake Kivu. In
1994, Paul Kagame helped stop a genocide that this country’s Hutu ethnic group committed against the Tutsis. For the
point, name this East African country with its capital at Kigali.
ANSWER: ​Rwanda

33. The Toyo Carp baseball team play in this city, and this city’s Genbaku Dome is an internationally known Peace Park
at which Barack Obama gave a speech apologizing for an attack on this city. This city was attacked by a plane named for
Paul Tibbets’ mother, Enola Gay, and the bomb Little Boy was dropped on this city four days before the bombing of
Nagasaki. For the point, name this city that was the first to be destroyed by an atomic bomb.
ANSWER: ​Hiroshima
                                                                                             International Geography Bee
                                                                                                    Round 7 - Page 6 of 6
34. This country faces a deepening water crisis due to cultivation of the water-intensive stimulant qat, and this country’s
former president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, was gunned down in early 2018. Houthi rebels currently control this country’s
capital, and a famine in this country has deepened due to an invasion from its northern neighbor that has taken its city of
Aden. For the point, name this Middle Eastern country with its capital at Sanaa.
ANSWER: ​Yemen

35. This island is part of the same administrative unit as the smaller islands of Pantelleria and the Aeolian Archipelago.
This island’s city of Marsala is famous for its wine, and this island’s three predominant cities were all founded by Greek
colonists. Those cities include Syracuse and Messina. This island was paired with Naples in a now-defunct kingdom. For
the point, name this island off the coast of southern Italy that contains the city of Palermo.
ANSWER: ​Sicily

36. This country’s former president, Mohammed Nasheed, once held a cabinet meeting underwater to bring awareness to
the threat this country faces from climate change. This country that straddles the equator is composed of 26 atolls on
which the Dhivehi Language is spoken, and this country is the Indian Subcontinent’s smallest. Those atolls include Male,
which also functions as this country’s capital.
ANSWER: the ​Maldives

37. An iconic sign in this city was built in the Googie style, and this city’s early development was influenced by Bugsy
Siegel and Meyer Lansky. This city’s most popular tourist district is actually located in the suburb of Paradise, and this
city’s landmarks include a huge pyramid at its Luxor, as well as replica canals at its Venetian. This city’s central area of
casinos and hotels is called its “strip”. For the point, name this largest city in Nevada, a hub of gambling.
ANSWER: ​Las Vegas

38. This area is home to an area of mysteriously rolling boulders known as Racetrack Playa, and a notable record was
achieved at its Greenland Ranch. This area’s Badwater Basin is the lowest point in the United States, and the hottest
temperature in US history was recorded in this area. This national park straddles two states, California and Nevada. For
the point, name this low-lying national park with a somewhat macabre name.
ANSWER: ​Death Valley

39. One object in this location is known as the “sarcophagus”, and another object known as the “elephant’s foot” lies near
it. The city of Pripyat was home to workers at this location, some of whom have retired to their original homes near this
location. A disaster at this location was widely covered after the introduction of the policy of Perestroika. That disaster
sent a radiation plume across much of Belarus. For the point, name this Ukrainian nuclear plant that melted downi n 1986.
ANSWER: ​Chernobyl

40. This country’s Southern region was known as its “useful” portion during its time as a French colony. This country’s
Zakouma National Park is a hotspot of biodiversity. This country fought the Toyota War with its Northern neighbor over
the Aozou Strip, which it currently controls. This country contains the Tibesti Mountains, and this country’s namesake
lake contained a border between it, Cameroon, Nigeria, and Niger before a sustained period of shrinking. For the point,
name this African country with its capital at N’Djamena
ANSWER: ​Chad
