                      INTERNATIONAL GEOGRAPHY BEE: Round 1
Tournament                                                                                   Room                                          Division
 Moderator                                                                 Scorer
                                                                                                                         Round
                                                                                                                                          (circle 1)   V JV
Student names (include
                            1   2   3     4   5     6   7   8   9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Final
full name and school)
                                                                                                                                                score
Total pts for reaching +8               15 points               14    13      12 pts   11 points         10 points          9 points          8 points
INSTRUCTIONS:
SCORING: For correct answers, place new running total in student’s row for the corresponding question. For -1’s (3 rd incorrect interrupt), place running total
and circle it. Cross out entire column if no score change. Make sure to place scores in the column for the correct question.
REACHING +8: Remove student from round. In “Final score” column, place student’s total score (refer to the bottom row for the question on which +8 was
reached). Cross out remainder of student’s row.
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                            Bee Round 1



                                        Bee Round 1
Regulation Questions

(1) This lake contains the islands of Konevets and Valaam, the site of two twin monasteries established
in the 14th century. This lake lies northeast of the historical region of Ingria, which changed hands in the
1617 Treaty of Stolbovo before again changing hands in the 1721 Treaty of Nystad. During a World War
II siege, this lake’s frozen surface was the site of the “Road of Life,” whose construction was necessitated
by the Finnish occupation of nearby Karelia. Lake Onega lies east of this lake, the source of the Neva
River. For the point, name this large Russian lake near St. Petersburg.
ANSWER: Lake Ladoga

(2) Friar Odoric of Pordenone, John de Mandeville, Ibn Battuta, and Marco Polo all described this
archipelago as being inhabited by dog-headed cannibals. Alfred Radcliffe-Brown’s 1906 fieldwork on
this archipelago led to the founding of structural functionalism. This archipelago is home to the still-
uncontacted Sentinelese people, who are known to shoot arrows at helicopters. It is paired with the
Nicobar Islands as one of the Union Territories of India. For the point, name this Indian archipelago whose
namesake sea lies southeast of the Bay of Bengal.
ANSWER: Andaman Islands

(3) After retreating from an archipelago rich in this resource, the Numancia became the first ironclad to
circumnavigate the world. During the 1860s, countries like Bolivia, Chile, and Peru declared war on Spain
after Spanish forces occupied an archipelago known for producing this resource. In 1856, the U.S. passed a
law allowing it to take possession of any unclaimed island that happened to contain this resource. Chinese
coolies formerly collected this resource on the dry, barren Chincha Islands of Peru. The Peruvian economy
collapsed after this nitrogen-rich resource was supplanted by Chilean saltpeter in the late 19th century.
For the point, name this type of fecal matter that once served as fertilizer.
ANSWER: guano (prompt on “manure,” “fertilizer,” “[bird and/or bat] poop,” or similar answers)

(4) This park was the site of a fake gold mine invented by the con artist Walter Scott, who names
a two-story villa here known as “Scotty’s Castle.” After directing Blowup, Michelangelo Antonioni
collaborated with Sam Shepard on a 1970 movie partly set in this park’s heavily eroded Zabriskie Point.
Its Racetrack Playa contains many “sailing stones,” which can mysteriously travel hundreds of feet by
themselves. For the point, name this national park in California’s Mojave Desert, a park whose Badwater
Basin is the lowest and hottest point in North America.
ANSWER: Death Valley National Park

(5) A rock formation in this mountain range was traditionally known as the “Bear Lodge” because it
supposedly received its distinctive appearance after a bear repeatedly tried to climb it. The coal-rich
Powder River Basin lies west of this range, which was set aside as a native reservation in the ineffective
1868 Treaty of Fort Laramie following Red Cloud’s War. The Devils Tower is within this gold-rich region,
which the Cheyenne and Sioux consider to be the center of the world. For the point, name these “hills” in
western South Dakota that contain Mount Rushmore.
ANSWER: Black Hills


                                                  Page 1
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                             Bee Round 1


(6) During the colonial era, anyone could be counted as a member of this ethnic group if they owned
10 cows. The term “Banyamulenge” refers to members of this group who immigrated to the South Kivu
plateau before the 20th century. John Hanning Speke’s Hamitic hypothesis justified colonial-era favoritism
towards this group by dubiously claiming that its members had originally migrated from Ethiopia,
resulting in their longer noses and necks. In 1994, the Interahamwe militias described members of this
group as “cockroaches.” For the point, name this ethnic group targeted during the Rwandan Genocide by
the Hutus.
ANSWER: Tutsis

(7) To halt this structure’s expansion, one side initiated the unsuccessful Battles of Kohima and Imphal.
Joseph Stilwell built a northwestern extension of this route named the Ledo Road, which crossed the
Chindwin River and began in Assam. After this structure closed down, it was largely replaced by an air
route known as “The Hump.” Claire Lee Chennault’s Flying Tigers were American volunteer pilots who
defended this road, which ended at Kunming in Yunnan province. For the point, name this road built by
the Allies to connect India to China during World War II.
ANSWER: Burma Road

(8) In 1991, anthropologist Anna Curtenius Roosevelt claimed the mouth of this river was once the
site of an advanced mound-building agricultural society. Anthropologist Betty Meggers argued that this
river created a “counterfeit paradise” characterized by high soil acidity; however, that claim has been put
into doubt by the discovery of charcoal-rich terra preta soil in this river’s basin. It is home to the large
Arapaima fish, which depends on surface air to survive in the hypoxic conditions of this river’s floodplains.
Francisco de Orellana discovered Marajo Island after traveling down this river in search of El Dorado. For
the point, name this longest river in South America.
ANSWER: Amazon River

(9) According to folklore, a dragon drank half of this river after consuming a lamb stuffed with sulphur,
then promptly exploded. Near the mouth of this river, officer Jozef Haller performed a ceremonial
“Wedding to the Sea” in 1920. The 1920 “Miracle” on this river occurred near Modlin Fortress, where
Jozef Pilsudski turned back the advance of the Red Army. This river rises in the Silesian Beskids and
flows by the former royal complex of Wawel Castle, which was built by Casimir III the Great. For the
point, name this major river that empties into the Baltic near Gdansk after flowing through Krakow and
Warsaw.
ANSWER: Vistula River

(10) The right to harvest logwood in what is now this country was guaranteed by the 1783 Treaty of
Versailles, which also confirmed this country’s northern border along the Rio Hondo. During the 19th
century, thousands migrated to this British colony to escape the nearby Caste War. The modern state
of Quintana Roo lies north of this coastal country, which was once known as British Honduras. For the
point, name this only Central American country to speak English as an official language, found northeast
of Guatemala.
ANSWER: Belize (prompt on British Honduras before mentioned)




                                                   Page 2
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                            Bee Round 1


(11) Beginning in 2013, villagers in this country would involuntarily fall asleep for days due to the Sleep
Hollow disease, which turned out to be caused by carbon monoxide from a nearby uranium mine. This
country’s Lake Chagan was created using a nuclear explosive in 1965. It contains the site of Semipalatinsk,
where the Soviet Union ran hundreds of nuclear tests during the Cold War. Today, all Russian spaceflights
are still launched from the desert steppes around this country’s Baikonur Cosmodrome. For the point,
name this Central Asian nation whose capital is Astana.
ANSWER: Kazakhstan

(12) While observing this sea, Irving Langmuir discovered a series of shallow convection cells now known
as “Langmuir circulation.” The eggs of American eels hatch in this sea, a phenomenon that has never
been directly observed by humans despite visibility approaching a hundred meters. This sea is named for
its huge clumps of free-floating seaweed, which Christopher Columbus wrongly interpreted as a sign of
nearby land on his first voyage. This sea lies southeast of the Gulf Stream. For the point, name this sea in
the Atlantic that notably does not border any landmass.
ANSWER: Sargasso Sea (prompt on “Atlantic Ocean”)

(13) In 1999 in this city, the pioneering artisanal coffee roaster Stumptown was founded. Until the FDA
cracked down, Nyquil-flavored donuts were sold at an eclectic tourist trap in this city called Voodoo
Doughnuts. An entire block of this city is occupied by Powell’s City of Books, the largest independent
bookstore in the world. This seat of Multnomah County has the world’s highest number of micobreweries
per capita. Reed College is located in, for the point, what city in the Willamette Valley, the center of
Oregon’s “hipster” culture?
ANSWER: Portland

(14) In this city, the filmmaker Vicky Funari documented the mistreatment of workers in a free trade
zone. In one particularly dumb tourist attraction, tourists take photos with this city’s so-called “Zebras,”
which are actually just donkeys painted with stripes. The Caesar Salad was invented in this city, which
contains many maquiladora factories. Most tourists arrive at this city through the San Ysidro checkpoint,
just south of where Father Junipero Serra founded his first mission. For the point, name this “Gateway to
Mexico,” a city just south of the U.S. & Mexico border near San Diego.
ANSWER: Tijuana

(15) On a hill outside this city, North Korean workers constructed the wildly expensive African
Renaissance Monument, which depicts a cartoonishly muscular man grabbing a woman with one arm and
holding a pointing child in another. From 1978 to 2008, racers drove from Paris to this city in a namesake
“Rally” crossing 3700 miles of offroad, mostly-desert terrain. Millions of slaves reputedly walked through
a door in what is now this city’s House of Slaves museum called the Door of No Return. Its Goree Island
lies off the coast of the Cap Vert Peninsula, the westernmost point in Africa. For the point, name this
capital of Senegal.
ANSWER: Dakar




                                                  Page 3
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                            Bee Round 1


(16) This state was the birthplace of the pirate Thomas Tew, who later helped found a semi-mythical
pirate republic in Madagascar. In this state, the Gilded Age-architect Richard Morris Hunt built Marble
House along a coastal path known as the Cliff Walk. In 1790, George Washington wrote a letter declaring
toleration for Jews after giving a speech at its Touro Synagogue, the first one in the U.S. In 1965, Bob
Dylan infamously “went electric” at a folk festival in this state, where the Vanderbilt family built a
summer mansion called The Breakers. For the point, name this New England state that contains the
resort town of Newport.
ANSWER: Rhode Island and Providence Plantations

(17) This territory’s Cape Dorset names an ancient culture that had lived in the area before being
displaced by the Thule people. This territory’s flag features the North Star and a red-colored land marker
consisting of stones stacked in a T-shape. A Mars simulation base currently operates in a crater on
this territory’s Devon Island, the world’s largest uninhabited island. Its weather station of Alert is the
northernmost permanently inhabited place in the world. It became a new territory in 1999. For the point,
name this northeastern Canadian territory inhabited by the Inuit.
ANSWER: Nunavut

(18) In this body of water, British military forces withdrew from the Greater and Lesser Tunbs in 1971.
The U.S. launched the retaliatory Operation Praying Mantis after the USS Samuel B. Roberts hit a
minefield in this body of water. To the south of Qeshm Island, the USS Vincennes accidentally shot down
a civilian airliner over this body of water as part of the “Tanker War” in 1988. Today, the U.S. Fifth Fleet
is garrisoned in this gulf at the port of Manama. For the point, name this gulf from which a third of the
world’s oil travels out of the Strait of Hormuz.
ANSWER: Persian Gulf (accept Strait of Hormuz until “U.S. Fifth Fleet” is read)

(19) In the 1930s, government authorities forcibly sterilized this region’s namesake “Bastards,” mixed-race
offspring of black troops and local white women. Nationalist newspapers coined the term “The Black
Shame” to criticize this region’s occupation by Senegalese tirailleurs, whom they accused of systematic
rape. The Saar lies south of this historical region, which was defended by the Siegfried Line to the west
during World War II. It was occupied by French troops from 1918 to 1930 and re-militarized in 1936 on
Hitler’s orders. For the point, name this “land” along a river in western Germany.
ANSWER: Rhineland

(20) In the 19th century, the capital of this modern-day country was settled by tin miners under the
powerful Chinese kapitan Yap Ah Loy. During World War II, the Japanese used bicycle infantry to invade
the colonial predecessor to this country, capturing its island of Penang and achieving victory in just six
weeks. This country includes a former kingdom ruled by the English adventurer James Brooke, who
founded a dynasty of “White Rajahs” within the Kingdom of Sarawak. For the point, name this Southeast
Asian country that expelled Singapore from its federation in 1965.
ANSWER: Malaysia




                                                  Page 4
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                              Bee Round 1


(21) This state’s Pescadero Point contains an sporting area known as Ghost Tree, where dead trees
along the shore supposedly resemble ghosts and witches. In this state, a private scenic road called the
17-Mile Drive meanders along the coast and passes by the iconic Lone Cypress. During the late 1980s,
Clint Eastwood served as the mayor of this state’s former artist colony of Carmel-by-the-Sea. This state
includes the natural habitat of the Monterey cypress, which grows around Pebble Beach Golf Links. For
the point, name this state, the site of the Big Sur, Venice Beach, and Malibu.
ANSWER: California

(22) This country’s high alpine forests are home to the blue duck and a rare forest parrot called the kea.
This country’s most endangered bird may be a large, green, flightless forest parrot called the kakapo. Bats
are the only native land mammals in this country. The critically endangered yellow-eyed penguin resides
on the southern islands of this country, including Stewart Island. Its gigantic Haast’s Eagle went extinct
after humans overhunted its main prey, the giant moa. For the point, name this Oceanic country, home to
the kiwi bird.
ANSWER: New Zealand

(23) This country is the home of the Kuduro dance style, which combines tribal music and techno.
During the colonial era, this country’s port city of Lobito was connected by its Benguela Railway to the
copper mines of central Africa. At the beginning of this country’s lengthy civil war, the Bakongo militants
of Holden Roberto’s FNLA controlled its north, Agostinho Neto’s Cuban-backed MPLA controlled its
capital city and its oil-rich exclave of Cabinda, and Jonas Savimbi’s UNITA controlled its south. For the
point, name this sub-Saharan country whose capital is Luanda.
ANSWER: Angola

(24) In this region, the warm waters of Magdalena Bay, San Ignacio Lagoon, and Scammon’s Lagoon are
important winter breeding areas for gray whales. To the east of this peninsula, increased water salinity
threatens the survival of the totoaba fish. Jacques Cousteau described the sea to the east of this peninsula
as “the world’s aquarium.” The shrinkage of a once-expansive river delta in the northeastern part of this
peninsula has led to the near-extinction of the vaquita porpoise. The arch of Cabo San Lucas marks the
southern tip of, for the point, what Mexican peninsula, west of the Sea of Cortez?
ANSWER: Baja California (or Baja Peninsula)

(25) This city’s St. Peter Street is home to Preservation Hall, a small concert venue and museum. This
city contains the oldest cathedral in the U.S., the St. Louis Cathedral, which stands next to its colonial-era
Cabildo building on Jackson Square. This city is the site of the landmark Café du Monde [mond], which
is known for its beignet [ben-YAY] doughnuts, and its Canal Street separates its American section from a
neighborhood originally settled by Acadian refugees. For the point, name this city where Bourbon Street
runs through the French Quarter, the most populous city in Louisiana.
ANSWER: New Orleans




                                                   Page 5
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                            Bee Round 1


(26) A statue of Freddie Mercury on the shores of this lake was featured on the cover of the commemorative
Queen album, Made in Heaven. A Frank Zappa fan accidentally used a flare gun to burn down a casino
during an annual jazz festival held at this lake’s city of Montreux, as recounted by the Deep Purple
song “Smoke on the Water.” Evian water is bottled on this lake’s southern shore, and the International
Olympic Committee is based in the city of Lausanne on its northern shore. For the point, name this lake
whose shores are the site of a namesake Swiss city.
ANSWER: Lake Geneva

(27) This island’s Blue and John Crow Mountains national park is the last habitat for Papilio homerus,
a giant swallowtail butterfly. Like the Cayman Islands, this island’s resort town of Negril is home to a
popular seven-mile beach, as well as a dramatic series of black cliffs. This island’s town of Ocho Rios is
the site of the staircase-like Dunn’s River Falls, which are annually climbed by hundreds of thousands of
tourists. A pirate haven on this island famously sank into the ocean in a major 1692 earthquake. Today,
cruise ships frequently dock in its tourist center of Montego Bay. For the point, name this Caribbean
island home to the former pirate haven of Port Royal.
ANSWER: Jamaica

(28) Until the 17th century, this city’s Parian district was the home of its Chinese community, which
made up a majority of its population. Today, this city’s Binondo district survives as the world’s oldest
overseas “Chinatown.” During the colonial era, the Spanish resided in the walled center of this city, known
as the “Intramuros.” The conquistador Miguel Lopez de Legazpi founded this city in 1571. Beginning
in the 16th century, treasure galleons annually carried silver from Acapulco to this city, in exchange for
Chinese goods. The Spanish lost this city to Commodore George Dewey in 1898. For the point, name this
capital of the Philippines.
ANSWER: Manila

(29) This region was briefly ruled by the German adventurer Theodore von Neuhoff, who is depicted as
the last and least fortunate of six deposed kings in Voltaire’s Candide. This island’s cities of Corte and
Bastia were once the capitals of a British protectorate established at the invitation of its revolutionary
leader Pasquale Paoli. Horatio Nelson lost his right eye while capturing this island’s town of Calvi, which
may have been the birthplace of Christopher Columbus. For the point, name this French island, a former
Genoese possession in the Mediterranean where Napoleon was born.
ANSWER: Corsica

(30) In this region, roasted pork knuckles called Schweinshaxn [sh’vines-hox-en] are often served with
potato dumplings. In 1516, this region introduced a pioneering food purity law that limited the ingredients
of beer to barley, hops and water. In 1589, this region’s duke Wilhelm V opened a royal beer hall called the
Hofbraühaus [HOFE-broy-house], which is now a major tourist attraction. Outdoor eating areas known as
“biergartens” originated in this German region, whose traditional attire includes the lederhosen. For the
point, name this south German region whose capital is Munich.
ANSWER: Bavaria (or Bayern)




                                                  Page 6
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                             Bee Round 1


(31) This country began a shift to renewable resources following a drilling project from “Deep Vision.”
Attempts to use this country’s Gullfoss waterfall to produce energy were futile, and it now forms part of
the “Golden Circle” route that tourists frequent. This country’s Blue Lagoon is powered by the nearby
Svartsengi plant, one of the geothermal plants that produce 26 percent of this country’s energy. For the
point, name this Nordic island country with capital at Reykjavik.
ANSWER: Iceland

(32) In 2016, it was reported that swarms of Chironomus calligraphus bugs are leaving smears of green
feces on this landmark; those bugs swarm because pollution is harming insect-eating fish in the Yamuna
River, which passes by this landmark. A half-size replica of this landmark called the Bibi Ka Maqbara
was built by Aurangzeb roughly a decade after this building was completed. This building, built just
south of the city of Agra, was commissioned in 1632 by Mughal emperor Shah Jahan in memory of his
wife Mumtaz. Four minarets frame the domed structure at the center of, for the point, what white marble
mausoleum in India?
ANSWER: Taj Mahal

(33) A natural “amphitheater” near this mountain is named after Don Sheldon, who built his namesake
“Mountain House” at the top of its Ruth Glacier in 1966. Tourists can view this mountain alongside the
Moose’s Tooth, Mount Hunter, and Mount Foraker via flightseeing tours based in the nearby Talkeetna.
Its Fake Peak was photographed in 1906 by Frederick Cook, who falsely presented the photograph as
evidence that he had summited this mountain. In August 2015, the Obama administration officially
renamed this mountain. For the point, name this Alaskan peak, the tallest in North America.
ANSWER: Denali (or Mount McKinley)

(34) This desert contains the isolated Gobero archaeological site, a graveyard built during a centuries-long
period of increased rainfall in the Tenere region around 8000 BC. Dust from this desert seasonally fills its
namesake “Air Layer,” a dry layer of the atmosphere that inhibits the development of hurricanes. Trade
winds annually carry 30 million tons of phosphorus-rich dust from a dry lakebed in its Bodele Depression
to the distant Amazon rainforest, and the Sirocco trade wind carries its dust into Europe. For the point,
name this desert that is rapidly advancing on the Sahel to its south.
ANSWER: Sahara Desert

(35) Journalist Mark Eisner documented how this commodity was disappearing due to unsustainable
development policies in a history of the Bureau of Reclamation. This resource is the subject of the
doctrine of “prior-appropriation,” which dictates “first in time, first in right” in many Western states. The
environment of Mono Basin was damaged by excessive extraction of this resource, which was also heavily
extracted from the Owens Valley during a series of so-called “wars” in California during the early 1900s.
For the point, name this resource contained with the Ogallala Aquifer.
ANSWER: water




                                                   Page 7
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                  Bee Round 1


Extra Question
Only read if moderator botches a question.
(1) Two answers required. In 1831, William I of the Netherlands unsuccessfully tried to arbitrate
a dispute between these two countries regarding the unrecognized Republic of Madawaska. During
the 1860s, Irish immigrants in one of these countries led the Fenian Raids against the other. The
Rush-Bagot Treaty demilitarized the border between these countries, which includes the Northwest
Angle. During the 19th century, these two countries became involved in border disputes such as
the Pig War and the Aroostook War. For the point, name these two countries separated by the
49th parallel.
ANSWER: United States of America and Canada (accept answers in either order; also accept
United States of America and the United Kingdom (or Great Britain or England; prompt on
partial answers)




                                              Page 8
