                                                    IGB PLAYOFFS: Phase 2
Tournament                                                                                     Room                                          Division
 Moderator                                                            Scorer
                                                                                                                           Round
                                                                                                                                            (circle 1)   V JV
Student names (include
                            1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Final
full name and school)
                                                                                                                                            score
INSTRUCTIONS: Place the announced score in the appropriate cell. Questions may be worth 6, 5, 4, or 3 points (if correct), -2 points (if incorrectly guessed
during the question), or -1 point (if incorrectly guessed after the question). Make sure to place scores in the column for the correct question. Keep a running total
on a separate piece of paper, updating after every question. Cross out entire column if no score change.
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                    Bee Finals Phase 2



                                Bee Finals Phase 2
Regulation Questions

(1) This location was the site of a drawing of the Hasan Dag mountains, which may be
the world’s first map. This location was the site of a “Seated Woman” sculpture featuring
a corpulent goddess resting on a throne adorned with leopard heads. James (+) Mellaart
excavated this site, where mound settlements were separated by the Carsamba River. No
streets existed at this location, whose (*) mudbrick houses were built wall to wall. For the points,
name this site that flourished roughly nine thousand years ago, the largest Neolithic settlement found,
where studies continue in southern Turkey.
ANSWER: Catalhoyuk ([cha-tal-hoy-ook], but be lenient)

(2) This island experiences solar tides instead of lunar tides due to its location on an
amphidromic point. This volcanic island consists of a larger “nui” section to the west, and a
smaller “iti” section to the east. In 1960, its Fa’a’a (+) International Airport was built to
facilitate nuclear testing on the islands of Mururora and Fangataufa, over a thousand miles
to the south. This island’s traditional (*) otea dance consists of rapid hip-shaking. In 1769, Joseph
Banks observed this island’s flora while James Cook studied the transit of Venus. For the points, name
this island in French Polynesia where breadfruit was harvested prior to the mutiny on the HMS Bounty.
ANSWER: Tahiti

(3) Ivan Getting established the basis for this technology by improving upon the World War
II-era LORAN system. This technology’s competing WGS-84 and GCJ-02 datums are not
reconciled well in China. This technology’s (+) accuracy can be improved via geometric
dilution of precision or the method of least squares, either of which require accounting for
time dilation. (*) Ronald Reagan promised to make this technology available for civilian use after
Korean Air Lines Flight 007 was shot down after accidentally flying into Soviet airspace. For the points,
name this satellite-based navigation technology.
ANSWER: Global Positioning System (or GPS)

(4) In 2016, a warlord from this region began hosting The Team, a reality TV show based
on The Apprentice, and asked his Instagram followers to help him find his missing cat. In
1995, militants from this region led by (+) Shamil Basayev seized nearly 2,000 hostages at
a hospital in Budyonnovsk. Russia lost nearly 2,000 tanks during a (*) 1995 war in this region
that embarrassed Boris Yeltsin. The strongman Ramzan Kadyrov currently rules this region to the west
of Dagestan. Grozny is the capital of, for the points, what disputed Caucasus region of Russia?
ANSWER: Chechnya




                                                 Page 1
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                       Bee Finals Phase 2


(5) In 1751, this island was visited by a 19-year-old George Washington, who embarked
on what would be the only long sea voyage of his life. On this island, the Mount Gay rum
distillery was founded in 1703, making it the world’s (+) oldest rum brand. During the
1600s, this island was widely considered the most prosperous British colony in the Americas,
but it fell into decline after many of its white settlers moved to the (*) Carolinas in the 1700s.
The singer Rihanna was born on this easternmost island of the Lesser Antilles, which has its capital at
Bridgetown. For the points, name this former British colony in the eastern Caribbean.
ANSWER: Barbados

(6) This mountain range looms over Jenny Lake and a line of homesteads known as Mormon
Row. The T. A. Moulton Barn, reputedly “the most photographed barn in America,” sits
below the (+) three tallest peaks in this mountain range, known as the Cathedral Group.
The John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Parkway runs alongside this range, which rises to the north of
the ski resort town of (*) Jackson Hole. Its highest peak is nicknamed “The Grand.” For the points,
give this Wyoming mountain range that names a national park south of Yellowstone.
ANSWER: Teton Range (or Tetons or Grand Teton National Park; prompt on Rockies or Rocky
Mountains)

(7) In this country, child laborers still work on the world’s largest rubber plantation, which
was built in 1926 after this country’s government gave Firestone Rubber complete control
over its finances. After Panama, this country maintains the world’s second-largest (+)
maritime registry, with over 3000 ships flying its flag, primarily as a “flag of convenience.”
This country lies in a region once known as the Grain Coast, or (*) Pepper Coast. In the 1990s,
its dictator Charles Taylor traded guns for blood diamonds from its northwestern neighbor, Sierra Leone.
For the points, name this poor West African country originally founded by freed American slaves with
capital Monrovia.
ANSWER: Liberia

(8) This region’s flag consisted of small red, white, blue, and black stripes in the top left of
a large yellow patch, a symbol of the doctrine “Five races under one union.” An attempt to
attract Jews to settle in this region was put forth in the (+) Fugu Plan. As this region was
being invaded in Operation August Storm by the Soviet Union, its capital was moved to (*)
Tonghua from Hsinking. Puyi was the nominal head of, for the points, what Japanese puppet government
set up after the Mukden Incident in Manchuria?
ANSWER: Manchukuo (prompt on Manchuria before mentioned)

(9) This site is home to the village of Sivu’ovi, a prominent settlement of the Basketmaker
II era, and other settlements in this site include the Agate House and the Puerco ruins. This
site’s “Newspaper Rock” has been inscribed with over 650 (+) petroglyphs by this park’s
former inhabitants, the Pueblo. This park’s northern sector extends into the (*) Painted
Desert, and its most famous features are the result of burial by volcanic sediment since the Triassic period.
For the points, name this national park in Arizona known for its fossilized trees.
ANSWER: Petrified Forest National Park



                                                   Page 2
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                 Bee Finals Phase 2


(10) In what is now this country, the fortress of La Goletta overlooked a major port that
Spain repeatedly lost and recaptured over the course of a century. This present-day country
was the central territory of the Hafsid Dynasty. (+) Spain sent multiple 16th-century
expeditions to seize this country’s large, sandy island of Djerba, whose final loss in 1560
occurred during the leadup to the Great Siege of (*) Malta. Fifty years after the conquest of
Algeria, this former Ottoman territory became a French protectorate. For the points, name this country
where Barbary corsairs were once based in Tunis.
ANSWER: Tunisia

(11) This lake lies near the submerged resort community of Bombay Beach and the squatter
settlement of Slab City, which is built on top of an abandoned Marine base. This lake is fed
by the New River, the most polluted in North America, and it (+) smells terrible due to
recent die-offs of tilapia caused by an abundance of fertilizer runoff. This lake lies mostly in
the Imperial and (*) Coachella Valleys, and it was formed after the Alamo River canal was breached
during a 1905 occurrence of El Nino. For the points, name this inland “sea” in southeastern California
accidentally formed by runoff from the Colorado River.
ANSWER: Salton Sea

(12) The tomb of Emperor Nintoku is located in this city. Naniwa Palace was constructed
in this city by Kotoku, who made it his capital in the seventh century. A group of warrior-
monks called ikko-ikki faced an eleven year siege in this city at the hands of (+) Oda
Nobunaga; those warriors resided in this city’s Ishiyama Hongan-ji along the Yodo River. In
1868, Tokugawa Yoshinobu fled this city in the middle of the night for (*) Edo, abandoning a
structure built in 1583 by Toyotomi Hideyoshi and besieged by Tokugawa forces in 1615. For the points,
name this city in the Kansai region, home to a landmark Japanese castle.
ANSWER: Osaka

(13) A late 19th century boom in this city led George Sala to dub it “Marvelous” and
included the construction of the APA building, one of the tallest at the time. This city’s
transportation hub is based around Flinders Street, and its Royal (+) Exhibition Building
housed its country’s Parliament prior to a 1927 move to Canberra. This birthplace of the (*)
Heidelberg School of impressionism is named for the prime minister William Lamb and was established
after Batman’s Treaty with the Aborigines. For the points, name this capital and most populous city of
Victoria.
ANSWER: Melbourne




                                               Page 3
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                    Bee Finals Phase 2


(14) Proposals to mediate war between these two countries were tabled in the Prague
Process and Madrid Principles. One of these countries occupies the other country’s village
of Karki; that village is an exclave of an exclave called Nakhchivan. A dispute between
these two countries was resolved when the Lachin (+) Corridor was awarded special status
in the Bishkek protocol. These two countries frequently contest the (*) Nagorno-Karabakh
region, a dispute now carried on by leaders Ilham Aliyev and Serzh Sargsyan. For the points, name these
two rival former Soviet satellites of the South Caucasus with capitals at Yerevan and Baku.
ANSWER: Azerbaijan and Armenia (accept in either order; prompt if one given)

(15) While building a railroad in what is now this country, so many workers died that the
railroad company decided to pickle their dead bodies in barrels and sell them to medical
schools. In the 1850s, the American businessman William Aspinwall financed a railway
along this present-day country’s (+) Chagres River. In this country, workers were racially
segregated into “gold rolls” and “silver rolls” during a project that appointed colonel
William Gorgas to sanitize the local environment. Carlos Finlay and (*) Walter Reed’s
epidemiological research greatly lowered the death toll of a project in this country featuring the Culebra
Cut, or Gaillard Cut. For the points, name this Central American country home where an engineering
project created a landmark canal.
ANSWER: Panama

(16) After an invader tore down the walls of this city in the 8th century, a Vasconian
force hid in the woods in a mountain pass near the modern city of Luzaide or Valcarlos
and ambushed the invaders’ rear guard. Since 1910, an American named Matthew Peter
Tasso and 14 (+) Spaniards have been killed in this city while participating in an event on
Ayuntamiento and Estafeta streets during the festival of (*) San Fermin, an event recounted in
Hemingway’s The Sun Also Rises. This city is the capital of a region home to Roncevaux Pass. For the
points, name this city, the capital of Navarre, where people annually run through the streets chased by
bulls.
ANSWER: Pamplona

(17) On this island, “grikes” criss-cross the limestone pavement of The Burren. During the
early medieval era, this island became home to tens of thousands of ringforts. Off its western
coast, a thousand miles of ancient stone walls enclose the flat (+) karst landscape of the
barren Aran Islands. Off its southwestern coast lies the monastery island of Skellig Michael,
where the final scene of (*) Star Wars: The Force Awakens was filmed. On this island, thousands
of hexagonal basalt columns form a coastal area called the Giant’s Causeway. For the points, name this
island whose residents once spoke Gaelic.
ANSWER: Ireland




                                                 Page 4
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                    Bee Finals Phase 2


(18) This state’s coastal McIntosh County is one of the only places where traditional “ring
shout” songs are still performed. This state’s Cumberland Island is famous for its bands
of feral (+) horses. Many Gilded Age-vacation homes stand on its Jekyll Island, the site
of a 1913 meeting where the Federal Reserve system was designed. This state’s island of
St. (*) Simons, the largest of its “Golden Isles,” lies offshore from the “Marshes of Glynn,” which were
immortalized in a poem by native son Sidney Lanier. For the points, name this state that shares the Sea
Islands with neighboring Florida and South Carolina.
ANSWER: Georgia

(19) Two major cities on this river were defended by the French-born colonial hero Santiago
de Liniers from three successive British invasions during the Napoleonic Wars. This river
was named by Sebastian Cabot, who searched its surroundings for treasure during the (+)
1520s instead of mapping the line for the Treaty of Tordesillas. A snake and a pile of gold
coins adorn the god of this river in the (*) Fountain of the Four Rivers, where it represents the
Americas. German forces scuttled the “pocket battleship” Admiral Graf Spee along the shores of this river
in 1939. For the points, name this “river,” a wide estuary on whose shores lie Montevideo and Buenos
Aires.
ANSWER: Rio de la Plata (or the Plate River)

(20) In this country’s Kahramanmaras region, wild orchids are harvested to make salep flour,
which is used to make a milky hot drink served with cinnamon. People in this non-Greek
country also combine salep flour with mastic gum to produce an elastic and chewy ice cream
called (+) Dondurma, which is sold by street vendors who jokingly challenge tourists to
grab scoops from a stick. Other street vendors in this country sell circular, sesame-encrusted
pieces of bread called simit. A namesake (*) candy from this country is made from a gel of starch
and sugar, and shaped into cubes. For 10 points, name this country where you can buy namesake “delight”
from the Grand Bazaar in Istanbul.
ANSWER: Turkey

(21) The ceiling of a hall in this location contains a hanging pearl mirror that will legendarily
fall and kill anybody who attempts to usurp power. At the stairways of this location, rulers
were traditionally carried in sedan chairs over long, ceremonial (+) ramps lined with
elaborate stone carvings. Most of the doors in this location are lined with 9 rows of 9 nails,
and it legendarily contained (*) 9,999 rooms. In 1644, a ruler hung himself on a tree behind this
building complex during the peasant rebellion of Li Zicheng. For the points, name this imperial complex
built by the Yongle Emperor, the residence of Chinese emperors.
ANSWER: Forbidden City (or Forbidden Palace; prompt on Beijing)




                                                 Page 5
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                    Bee Finals Phase 2


(22) The Armsmear estate was willed to this city as parkland in its Sheldon neighborhood
after the death of Elizabeth Colt. In this city, Harriet Beecher Stowe lived the last days of
her life next door to Mark Twain, who built a house here in 1873. The corporate ancestors of
Aetna, (+) CIGNA, and Travelers were all founded in this city, often called the “Insurance
Capital of the World” as a result. This city and its surrounding river valley witnessed a
19th-century boom in precision (*) manufacturing, as a result of innovations from the Springfield
Armory to the north. For the points, name this capital of Connecticut.
ANSWER: Hartford

(23) This country’s inland town of Belogradchik is built near a series of distinctively-shaped
sandstone rocks. Its medieval Rila Monastery is widely recognizable due to its white-striped
decor. This country’s national cathedral features a prominent (+) gold-plated central dome
and was built to honor Russian soldiers who fought for this country’s independence in the
Russo-Turkish War of 1877. A Renaissance-style “old town” and ancient (*) Macedonian
ruins are major attractions in its city of Plovdiv. For the points, name this Balkan country whose capital
is Sofia.
ANSWER: Bulgaria

(24) This island’s economy lost nearly 40,000 jobs after a 95% decline in nearby fish
populations and a 1992 moratorium on fishing. The Treaty of Utrecht guaranteed the right
of the French to fish along this island’s so-called “French Shore,” a right that was later
extended to the nearby islands of Saint (+) Pierre and Miquelon. Breton and Basque
fishermen working near this island were among the first Europeans to travel to the (*) New
World. John Cabot discovered large populations of cod in the Grand Banks to its east. For the points,
name this eastern Canadian island off the coast of Labrador.
ANSWER: Newfoundland (do not accept or prompt on “Newfoundland and Labrador”)

(25) In this state, Carl Wickman started a bus service connecting the mining town of
Hibbing and the drinking town of Alice; that service eventually became Greyhound Lines.
In 1902 in this state’s port of Two Harbors, the conglomerate (+) 3M was founded as
a mining venture. In the 1890s, U.S. manufacturing exports surged after large-scale iron
mining began in this state’s Mesabi Range. Bob (*) Dylan’s song “North Country Blues” recounts
the decline of a mining town in this home state of Dylan’s. Due to the large number of NHL players born
in this state, its mining town of Eveleth is home to the U.S. Hockey Hall of Fame. For the points, name
this Midwestern state that contains Duluth and the Twin Cities.
ANSWER: Minnesota




                                                 Page 6
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                    Bee Finals Phase 2


(26) In this country, thousands of Pentecostal churches affiliated with the “Assemblies of
God” denomination are run by child preachers with supposedly miraculous healing powers.
During a period of Dutch occupation in the 17th century, settlers in this country founded its
(+) Kahal Zur Israel, the oldest synagogue in the Americas. The term “Macumba” refers
broadly to this country’s variety of syncretic, Yoruban-based religions, including Quimbanda
and Umbamba. Its syncretic religion of (*) Candomble originated among slaves in its Bahia region.
For the points, name this South American country that is home to the largest number of Catholics in the
world.
ANSWER: Brazil

(27) In this European state, the so-called “Gefilte Fish Line” separated two culturally
distinct Jewish populations. Since the government wouldn’t permit them to erect masonry,
Jews in this historical state built many unique (+) “wooden synagogues.” During the
mid-17th century, over 100,000 Jews in this state may have been massacred as part of its
Khmelnytsky Uprising. In the 18th century, the Habsburgs annexed its region of (*) Galicia,
a major area of Jewish settlement. Russia converted much of its territory into the Pale of Settlement in
1791. For the points, name this Eastern European state that was partitioned multiple times.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Poland [or Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth or Poland-Lithuania; prompt
on (Grand Duchy of) Lithuania]

(28) While leading archaeological research of this island’s Burial Ridge, William Pepper
found Native American jasper pendants. Opposite sides of this island are home to Great
Kills and Freshkills Parks, and Goethals Bridge crosses a (+) state line to reach this island.
The first European to reach this island did so aboard La Dauphine; a (*) bridge connecting
this island to a larger island across the Narrows is named for that explorer, Giovanni Verrazzano. For the
points, name this island, which Henry Hudson named after the Dutch Parliament and which is now a
borough of New York.
ANSWER: Staten Island

(29) In 2013, the estuary of this river became the site of the world’s largest offshore wind
farm. This river’s “South Bank” commercial district is the site of the (+) Oxo Tower,
a converted power station that now contains a prominent restaurant. The cover of Pink
Floyd’s 1977 album Animals depicts the iconic brick (*) Battersea Power Station, past which
this river flows. Its converted Bankside Power Station now houses the Tate Modern art museum. For the
points, name this river that flows past many industrial buildings in London.
ANSWER: Thames River




                                                 Page 7
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                     Bee Finals Phase 2


(30) From 2005 to 2008, this country’s indigenous peoples were studied by the first Bowman
Expedition, a geography project that controversially relied on U.S. military funding. This
country’s largely-undeveloped Lacandon (+) Jungle is a center of anti-government and
anti-environmentalist sentiment. Indigenous farmers in this country work on communal
plots of land known as ejidos. Similar to the introduction of IR8 rice in India and the (*)
Philippines, Norman Borlaug’s innovation in wheat revolutionized this country’s economy. In response to
the threat of land privatization in 1994, the EZLN declared an indigenous uprising in the state of Chiapas.
For the points, name this country that witnessed the Zapatista Uprising after it signed NAFTA.
ANSWER: Mexico

(31) The prized Rothschild’s slipper orchid is endemic to this island, where over 30 new
species of orchids have been discovered in the last decade. This island’s highest mountain
is home to the Nepenthes rajah, the world’s largest (+) pitcher plant. Many other pitcher
plants live in this island’s Gunung Mulu National Park, the site of an extensive cave system
that includes the world’s largest cave chamber and cave passage. (*) Pygmy elephants inhabit
the rainforests of this island, which includes the biodiversity hotspot of Mount Kinabalu. For the points,
name this island shared between Indonesia, Malaysia, and Brunei.
ANSWER: Borneo

(32) In this state, Ugo Rondinone recently unveiled the art installation Seven Magic
Mountains, a series of 7 neon-colored stone totems along an interstate highway. Since the
1990s, Michael Heizer has worked on (+) City, a single enormous piece of “land art” in
this state consisting of monuments arranged across miles of desert. At an annual gathering
in this state’s Black Rock Desert, participants build a (*) temporary “city” whose concentric
streets form two-thirds of a 1.5-mile-wide circle surrounding a large wooden effigy. Burning Man is held
in, for the points, what state that contains Reno?
ANSWER: Nevada

(33) Tourists often view this mountain from the nearby “Five Lakes” region, where the
landscape is covered with a carpet of “pink moss” flowers during an annual festival. The
hike up this mountain is divided into (+) 10 stations. To the northwest of this mountain,
deep ice caves dot the volcanic landscape of a forest known as the “Sea of Trees,” where
hundreds of (*) suicides have occurred in the last several decades. This mountain was depicted in
bright red, in contrast to a sky colored by Prussian Blue pigment, as part of a woodblock print series.
Hokusai created Thirty-Six Views of, for the points, what iconic Japanese volcano?
ANSWER: Mount Fuji (accept Fuji-yama)




                                                  Page 8
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                     Bee Finals Phase 2


(34) In what is now this country, mixed-race groups like the Basters and the Griqua migrated
inland to escape colonial discrimination during the 19th century. In 1810, a voluptuous
native woman from this present-day country called Sarah (+) Baartman was brought as a
freakshow attraction to Europe, where she was dubbed the “Hottentot Venus.” Aloe plants
and other succulents grow in abundance within its semi-desert (*) Karoo region, one of the
last places inhabited by the pastoralist Khoikhoi people. For the points, name this African country where
Khoisan click languages were once spoken.
ANSWER: South Africa

(35) Hundreds of giant brick warehouses line the canals of this city’s old port district, where
miniature replicas of European landscapes and landmarks can be found within the Miniatur
Wunderland tourist attraction. This city’s (+) Reeperbahn street is the site of an infamous
red light district where, before they were world-famous, the Beatles built their reputation
by playing at (*) nightclubs. This largest port on the River Elbe lies about 100 kilometers upstream
from the North Sea. For the points, give this German city that names a ground beef sandwich.
ANSWER: Hamburg

Extra Questions
Only read if moderator botches a question.
(1) A suburb of this city was home to the Nashoba Commune, which was partially
located on its Shelby Farms. Interstate 40 runs south of Bartlett instead of
controversially running through this city’s Overton Park. Goner (+) Records was
founded in this city’s Cooper-Young neighborhood; this city is also the birthplace of
Stax Records and the home to the Museum of American Soul Music. This city on the
confluence of the (*) Wolf and the Mississippi was co-founded by Andrew Jackson in 1819.
Elvis’ Graceland estate and Beale Street are located in, for the points, what Tennessee city?
ANSWER: Memphis, Tennessee

(2) In this territory, a ceremonial arch was built in the Forodhani Gardens for Princess
Margaret, who visited it in 1956 on a state visit. Those gardens in this territory are
overlooked by a palace that, in 1883, featured the first (+) elevator in East Africa and
became known as the House of Wonders. This territory includes the islands of Pemba and
Unguja. (*) Stone Town is the largest city in, for the points, what archipelagic territory off the coast of
eastern Africa that, in 1964, merged with the mainland Tanganyika to form Tanzania?
ANSWER: Zanzibar




                                                  Page 9
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                    Bee Finals Phase 2


(3) A bust of Mario Filho, a journalist for which this place is officially titled, was recently
stolen from it. This structure overtook Glasgow’s Hampden as the largest of its kind when it
was inaugurated in (+) 1950. This site is the namesake of a 1950 “blow” in which Uruguay
was shockingly crowned champions in front of nearly (*) 200,000 fans, the most to ever attend a
football match. More recently, a 113rd minute Mario Gotze winner let Germany lift the 2014 World Cup
in this venue. For the points, name this iconic Brazilian stadium located in Rio de Janeiro.
ANSWER: Maracanã Stadium

(4) This city was considered to be equivalent to al-Karak in the early 19th century. This city
could once be reached by going around the Jabal Haroun, a mountain believed to be the
burial site of (+) Aaron. The siq is a narrow passage leading to this city, whose “treasury”
ruins of Al Khazneh is riddled with (*) bullet holes and carved onto the face of a sandstone cliff.
This city served as the capital of the Nabateans. For the points, name this ancient city, the most visited
tourist attraction in Jordan.
ANSWER: Petra

(5) On this archipelago, the explorer Gerrit de Veer recorded the first known case of
hypervitaminosis A after consuming a polar bear liver. Thermal inversions cause this
archipelago’s namesake “effect,” a mirage in which the sun can be seen below the horizon
in the form of a line or hourglass shape. In 1597, the explorer Willem (+) Barentsz died
while sailing from this archipelago, where he had been stranded for a year. In 1961, Soviet
authorities on this archipelago tested the (*) Tsar Bomba, the largest nuclear weapon ever
detonated. For the points, name this Arctic archipelago between the Kara and Barents Seas in Russia’s
Far North, whose name means “New Land.”
ANSWER: Novaya Zemlya

(6) In this region, tourists can wade through a turquoise, underground river called the Rio
Secreto. High end restaurants line the sides of La Quinta Avenida in this region’s Playa del
Carmen. A coastal tourism corridor in this region contains a set of man-made (+) “eco
theme parks” including Xel-Ha Park, Xplor Park, and Xcaret Park. The Isla Mujeres is a
popular (*) scuba destination off the coast of this peninsula, which lies west of the island of Cozumel.
For the points, name this peninsula that contains the Riviera Maya and Cancun.
ANSWER: Yucatan Peninsula (accept Quintana Roo or Riviera Maya before “peninsula” is read)




                                                 Page 10
