   International Geography Bee 2019 US National Championships
                  Varsity & Junior Varsity Division
                                            FINALS
1. This city’s Modernist city hall is located on Nathan Phillips Square and once featured concrete
furniture. This city’s Old Town neighborhood is on the site of the older city of (+) York. This city’s
suburbs of Brampton and Mississauga are home to large South Asian populations. This city is the
largest on the (*) shore of Lake Ontario. Rob Ford served as mayor of this city in the early 2010s before
his sudden death. For the points, name this city home to the CN Tower, the most populous in Canada.
ANSWER: Toronto

2. This ethnic group was led in rebellion by Cecilio Chi and maintained independence in the city of
Chan Santa Cruz until 1910. This ethnic group’s languages include (+) Tzoltzil, Kiche, and Mam.
This ethnic group inhabits the (*) Peten Plateau and built cities including Tulum and Calakmul. For the
points, name this ethnic group whose “classic” period saw the flourishing of the cities of Tikal and
Chichen Itza.
ANSWER: Mayans (accept Kiche or Mam until mention)

3. This region has a major port of entry at Manzhouli. Much of the world’s rare earth elements are
produced around this province’s city of Baotou. The (+) Ordos Desert is located in this province,
and many nomadic groups have been resettled to its capital of Hohhot. Along with Xinjiang, (*)
Tibet, Ningxia, and Guangxi, this is one of China’s five autonomous regions. For the points, name this
autonomous region of China contrasted with an “outer” country with its capital at Ulaanbaatar.
ANSWER: Inner Mongolia [prompt on China until “province”, do not accept or prompt on Mongolia
alone]

4. This district was the primary subject of a foundational 1972 book on postmodern urban design
by Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown. Architectural sites in this corridor include the Art
Deco-inspired Flamingo and the (+) Luxor, a large glass pyramid-shaped hotel and casino. Despite
its name, this area is located in Paradise in unincorporated (*) Clark County. McCarran International
Airport and the future stadium of the NFL’s Raiders abut this area. Mandalay Bay and Caesars Palace are
located in, for the points, this corridor known for entertainment, gambling, and gaudy architecture,
located just south of Nevada's most populous city.
ANSWER: Las Vegas Strip [prompt on Las Vegas, Paradise, Clark County, or Nevada]
5. Michael an Gof led one rebellion in this region. Dorothy Pentreath was the last speaker of one
language named for this region. This region’s “Stannary parliaments” were centered on its tin
mining industry. The Isles of (+) Scilly are part of this county. This region’s duke produces a line of
agricultural products and is the current Prince of Wales, Charles. This region’s city of (*) Land’s
End is an extreme point in its country. For the points, name this region in the far Southwest of England.
ANSWER: Cornwall

6. The Halabi pepper is the source of a seasoning named for this city, which is on the shore of the
Quieq River. This city served as the capital of the (*) Zengid dynasty. A photograph of Omran
Daqneesh in the back of an (+) ambulance became emblematic of one siege of this city. For the points,
name this city that was the focus of a lengthy 2016 siege, the most populous in its country before the
Syrian Civil War.
ANSWER: Aleppo

7. Men in this ethnic group practiced ichi, a form of ritual facial scarification, while women of this
ethnic group participated in the 1929 Aba riots. This is the predominant ethnic group in its main
country’s Rivers State, which includes the cities of Enugu and (+) Port Harcourt. The group
MASSOB advocates for an independent state for this group in the southeastern portion of a large
West African country. This predominantly (*) Chrisitan ethnic group created the short-lived Republic
of Biafra during one country’s 1960s civil war. For the points, name this ethnic group, which, along with
the Hausa, Fulani, and Yoruba, is a major ethnic group of Nigeria.
ANSWER Igbo people [pronounced ee-bo]

8. The sun god Ahadeli is worshipped in this river’s basin, which includes the Paragua and Caroni
Rivers and Canaima National Park. This river’s delta is located in Delta Amacuro state, and this
river is connected to a larger river system to its south by the natural (+) Casiquiare Canal.
Guayana City and Ciudad Bolivar are the largest cities along this river, whose drainage basin
includes the (*) world’s highest uninterrupted waterfall, Angel Falls. For the points, name this longest
river in Venezuela.
ANSWER: Orinoco River

9. The massive painting “The March of Humanity” is located inside this city’s Polyforum. After an
election in its country, a plan to build a new (+) airport in this city and replace the old airport with
a shopping mall was canceled. A telecommunications tycoon built this city’s Soumaya Museum. An
initiative seeks to move government ministries out of this city and into states such as (*) Tlaxcala
and Tabasco. For the points, name this city, the location of a presidential palace inhabited by Andres
Manuel Lopez Obrador.
ANSWER: Mexico City
10. The northern portion of this peninsula is home to the Koryak people, and in 2013, four
volcanoes on this peninsula erupted at the same time. This peninsula is the namesake of the largest
(+) brown bear subspecies in Eurasia. This peninsula is separated from the mainland by the
Shelikhov Gulf. The city of (*) Petropavlovsk is the largest city on this peninsula, which sits north of the
disputed Kuril Islands. For the points, what Siberian peninsula separates the Bering Sea from the Sea of
Okhotsk?
ANSWER: Kamchatka Peninsula

11. The blind monk Jianzhen founded a Buddhist sect named for this city, one of its namesake “six
schools”. According to a local proverb, one can “see” this city “and die” due to its magnificent
architecture. The world’s (+) largest Buddha statue is located in this city’s Todai-ji temple. While it
served as a capital, this city was known as (*) Heijo. For the points, name this Japanese city that served
as the capital of Japan in the 8th century before it was moved to Kyoto.
ANSWER: Nara

12. The Jul’hoansi people live in this desert and speak a click-heavy language. The city of
Keetmanshoop is an important city on this desert’s outskirts, as is Francistown. This desert’s
Makgadikgadi (+) Salt Pan is one of the world’s largest. This desert translates as “the great thirst”
in the (*) Tswana language. This desert contains the biodiverse Okavango Delta. For the points, name
this desert primarily located in Botswana.
ANSWER: Kalahari

13. One church in this city has towers nicknamed “Adam” and “Eve”, one of which is slightly taller
than the other. That church is Our Lady Before Tyn. This city’s Petrin Hill features a (+) funicular
that serves Strahov Stadium, the largest ever built. The (*) Vltava River is crossed by this city’s
Charles Bridge, which was built when this city served as the capital of the kingdom of Bohemia. For the
points, name this capital of the Czech Republic.
ANSWER: Prague

14. In the 16th century, this city established a trading colony at Fes in Morocco. This city’s main
cruise dock is in the Gruz neighborhood., north of the Pile Gate and Rector’s Palace in its old city.
This city traditionally controlled the nearby islands of (+) Brac and Hvar, and was known as
Ragusa under Venetian rule. This city is separated from the rest of its country by (*) Bosnia and
Herzegovina’s only coastline. For the points, name this city in southern Croatia, located south along the
Adriatic coast from Split.
ANSWER: Dubrovnik [accept Ragusa until mention]

15. They’re not Vietnamese, but before 9/11 Guantanamo Bay was used to house “boat people” of
this immigrant group. The city of Delray Beach, Florida has the US’s highest concentration of
people of this immigrant group. Apartment buildings inhabited by this immigrant group frequently
have (+) poteau mitons built in them to accommodate their worship. People of this immigrant
group speak a French-inspired (*) creole and practice voodoo. For the points, name this immigrant
group who came to the us from cities such as Port-au-Prince.
ANSWER: Haitian-Americans
16. Felipe Guaman Poma de Ayala wrote a 1200 page letter to the king of Spain to protest the use of
Indian labor in mining this substance. That mining took place at the city of Huancavelica. Chemical
testing indicates that (+) Shi Huangdi’s tomb contained a replica of the world floating on an ocean
of this substance. This substance is extracted from an ore called (*) cinnabar. For the points, name
this substance whose rise measures temperature and pressure differences in barometers and thermometers.
ANSWER: Mercury [accept Hg, quicksilver]

17. Jockey’s Ridge State Park is located near this island chain’s largest town, Nags Head.
Lighthouses including ones at Buxton and (+) Currituck Beach are located in this island chain. This
island group is separated from the mainland by the Pamlico Sound, and this island chain includes
Ocracoke (*) and Cape Hatteras. This island chain contains the location of the first powered human flight
at its Kill Devil Hills, near its town of Kitty Hawk. For the points, name this barrier island group off the
coast of North Carolina.
ANSWER: Outer Banks [accept OBX]

18. The Rajang River, its country’s longest, runs through this state. A set of stone pinnacles is the
most famous feature of this state’s Gunung Mulu National Park. The port city of (+) Bintulu is on
the central coast of this state, while the southern city of Kuching is the capital. This state borders
Kalimantan on the northwest and surrounds (*) Brunei on all sides. For the points, name this region of
Malaysia that shares the island of Borneo with Sabah.
ANSWER: Sarawak

19. The flooding of this river, the Incomati, and the Umbeluzi Rivers yb Cyclone Eline led to
devastating 2000 floods near this river’s delta. A tributary of this river named for the local
crocodile has its source in the (+) Witwatersrand mountain range, which is also a hub for gold
mining. Kruger National Park, named after the president of the (*) Transvaal, is bordered to the
north by this river. This river ends near the port town of Xai-Xai in Mozambique. For the points, name
this second largest river in Africa to empty into the Indian Ocean, after the Zambezi River.
ANSWER: Limpopo River

20. This structure was the most famous project of the Austrian architect Walter Jurecka. The
creation of this structure led to the dislocation of the Hungarian-descended Magyarab people from
their namesake island. The construction of this structure required the (+) relocation of artifacts on
the island of Philae, as well as of the temple of (*) Abu Simbel. The building of this structure created
Lake Nasser, which is named after the Egyptian president who built it. For the points, name this dam on
the Nile River near its namesake city in Southern Egypt.
ANSWER: Aswan High Dam [accept Aswan Dam, Saad al-’Ali]

21. Creatively-named census-designated places near this city include “North Valley” and “South
Valley.” This city developed partially due to the building of Kirtland Air Force Base, and is the site
of (+) Sandia National Laboratory. This city was founded in 1706 and is home to the world’s largest
hot air balloon event. This city is home to the (*) Isotopes baseball team and is connected by Interstate
25 to its state’s capital, Santa Fe. For the points, name this most populous city in New Mexico.
ANSWER: Albuquerque [accept ABQ]
22. The infamously tortuous Highway of the Sun ascends this mountain range. The quincunx
military formation was designed to deal with this mountain range’s terrain by the Samnite people,
who lived in this mountain range. Lake (+) Trasimene is the largest lake in this mountain range.
This mountain range’s highest peak’s name translates as “big horn”, or Corno Grande. Rivers
including the (*) Arno and Tiber have their sources in this mountain range. For the points, name this
mountain range that spans much of the length of the Italian peninsula.
ANSWER: Appenines

23. This country is home to the rocky Burren region and the mountain range of MacGillycuddy’s
Reeks. This country’s city of Cobh (pr. “cove”) was renamed from Queenstown after its
independence. A controversial (+) “backstop” is intended to ensure that this country’s Northern
border remains open. This country’s traditional regions include (*) Munster and Leinster, and its
largest traditional counties include Galway and Cork. For the points, name this European country with its
capital at Dublin.
ANSWER: Republic of Ireland [do not accept Northern Ireland]

24. This city has a 1.6-mile light rail line connecting its Theater District to a wooden enclosed
stadium, this city's namesake Dome. This city on Commencement Bay is the county seat of (+)
Pierce County. A bridge connecting this city to the Kitsap Peninsula (*) collapsed shortly after
opening in 1940 and is named for this city's Narrows. This city’s name comes second in the name of the
busiest airport in the Pacific Northwest. For the points, name this city, the third-largest by population in
Washington, located halfway between Olympia and Seattle.
ANSWER: Tacoma, Washington

25. The Maroni River forms the Western border of this territory. This territory contains the
Kourou Space Center, as well as a prison camp that only Henri Charriere ever escaped from.
Alfred (+) Dreyfus was imprisoned in that complex in this territory, Devil’s Island. This territory
borders the state of Amapa in Brazil and its capital is the namesake of a type of (*) hot pepper. For
the points, name this French overseas Department with its capital at Cayenne, located in South America.
ANSWER: French Guiana (do not accept Guyana)

26. A Japanese visitor, Kenryo Shimano, drew the first known plan of this city. The first European
sighting of this city was made by the French explorer Henri Mouhot. A statue of King (+)
Jayavarman VII is often used as an emblem of this city, and the Bayon temple was built in this city.
A kingdom named for this city built water tanks called barays for its capital, which is located near
the modern city of (*) Siem Reap. For the points, name this city whose namesake wat, or temple, is the
largest ritual structure on earth and appears on the flag of Cambodia.
ANSWER: Angkor [accept Angkor Wat after mentioned]
27. A fake stone age tribe on this island was created by tourism minister Manuel Elizalde, Jr. The
Zamboanga Peninsula is located on this island. This island’s city of Marawi was the subject of a
lengthy siege by the (+) Islamic State. The “Moro” Muslim community is based on this island. This
island’s city of (*) Davao was governed in the 1980s by Mayor Rodrigo Duterte. For the points, name
this southernmost major island in the Philippines.
ANSWER: Mindanao

28. Ralph Hosmer planted an experimental grove of trees from all around the world near the
summit of a mountain on this island. This island is separated from a neighbor to the northwest by
the Lahaina Roads, and this island is the location of (+) Haleakala National Park, This island’s
namesake county also contains the islands of Lanai, Kaho’olawe, and most of (*) Molokai, and its
largest city is Kahului. This island is the only place where “kula-grown” sweet onions are produced. For
the points, name this Hawaiian island that shares its name with a Polynesian trickster god.
ANSWER: Maui

29. Decorated earthenware discs found on this island group are known as “frying pans”, although
their actual function is unknown. One culture named for this island chain produced a style of art
known for its simplified, (+) curved forms. That culture was the third major archaic Greek culture
after the Minoans and Mycenaeans. This chain contains islands such as Mykonos, Paros, and (*)
Delos. For the points, name this Greek island chain Southeast of Attica, the largest of which is Naxos,
which is named for the Greek word for circle.
ANSWER: Cyclades

30. It’s not Australia, but Christmas Atoll is the largest in one of this country’s island groups. This
country’s highest points is on Banaba, and this country’s archipelagos include the Phoenix and (+)
Line Islands. Under colonialism, this country was known as the Gilbert Islands. The International
Date Line makes its largest diversion from 180 degrees East latitude to place all of this country’s
territory in the same date, and this country’s flag features a (*) gull flying over a rising sun. For the
points, name this Pacific island country with its capital at Tarawa.
ANSWER: Kiribati [pronounced keer-ee-bahss but accept phonetic pronunciations]

31. This city’s Ironbound neighborhood is a center of the U.S.’s Brazilian and Portuguese
communities. Mark Zuckerberg made a donation of hundreds of millions of dollars to establish
charter schools in this city, which is located across the (+) Passaic River from Harrison. This county
seat of Essex County is served by (*) Liberty Airport, and Cory Booker served as its mayor before being
elected senator. For the points, name this most populous city in New Jersey.
ANSWER: Newark

32. One territory’s capital was forced to relocate to Brades after one of these disasters destroyed
the city of Plymouth. Another of these disasters in 1902 destroyed the city of St. Pierre on the island
of (+) Martinique, and names a type of these disasters that often creates a nuee ardente. The (*)
Soufriere Hills were a frequent source of these disasters, as was Mont Pelee. For the points, name these
disasters that often bury towns in pyroclastic flows.
ANSWER: volcanic eruptions (accept volcano)
33, The diversion of Canteen Creek may have caused a water crisis that led to the collapse of this
city. The ball game of chunkey was played in this city, which lay at the center of a trading network
in the (+) American Bottom region. This city’s largest landmark is named for a group of Trappists
who settled on it in 1809. This city was dominated by (*) Monks Mound. For the points, name this
largest pre-Columbian city north of Mexico, located in Southern Illinois.
ANSWER: Cahokia

34. Rehman Dheri is an ancient city located on this river, and the Nara Canal flows away from this
body of water. The original inhabitants of this river’s basin were referred to as “dasas” by an
invading group, and this river’s basin was referred to in Semitic texts as (+) Meluhha. A series of
five tributaries of this river, which include the Jhelum and Sutlej, are the namesake of the region of
(*) Punjab. For the points, name this river that is the namesake of an ancient civilization that built cities
such as Mohenjo-Daro, located in modern Pakistan.
ANSWER: Indus River

35. This archipelago is home to a mansion famed for the polydactyl cats that roam its grounds. Part
of this archipelago declared independence from the United States as the (+) Conch Republic as a
tongue-in-cheek publicity stunt. This archipelago is connected to the mainland by the Overseas
Highway. This archipelago is the namesake of a type of a small subspecies of deer as well as a (*)
lime commonly used in pies. For the points, name this archipelago that includes islands such as “Largo”
and “West” and is located off the coast of a Southeastern US state.
ANSWER: Florida Keys



	  
