           2019 International Geography Bee
         US Middle School & Elementary School
               National Championships
                    Preliminary Round 2
1. This nation’s capital city includes an abandoned governmental structure named the Marea Haus,
which residents affectionately call the “The Pineapple Building.” The Tunnels of Rabaul were
built by the Japanese during WWII on this nation’s island of New Britain. This most linguistically
diverse nation has languages like Unserdeutsch, a German Creole developed in the 19th century,
and Tok Pisin. This nation is separated from its former administrator, Australia, by the Torres
Straits. For the point, name this nation predominately on the island of New Guinea with capital at
Port Moresby.
ANSWER: Independent State of Papua New Guinea (do NOT accept or prompt on “New
Guinea” on its own)

2. First built in 1837, the oldest building still standing in this park is the Lockkeeper’s House,
where tolls were collected for the C&O Canal. Andrew Jackson Downing’s plan for this park led
to construction of what is now the Hirshhorn Museum of Art. At the behest of Eleanor Roosevelt,
Marian Anderson sang at this park after the Daughters of the American Revolution refused to let
her perform at Constitution Hall. That performance was at this park’s Lincoln Memorial. For the
point, name this landscaped park that is the site of the Washington Monument in Washington D.C.
ANSWER: National Mall [prompt on sites in the National Mall like “The Lincoln Memorial”]

3. The song “Nacht am Norocz,” (pr. noar-OACH) is about a battle at this nation’s largest lake.
The highest point in this nation was originally named “Holy Mountain,” but would be renamed
after the Cheka leader Felix Dzerzhinsky. The Neman River originates in this nation and goes on
to form its border with Lithuania for a few miles. This is the only European nation to maintain
capital punishment in the year 2019. For the point, name this former Soviet Republic headed by
Alexander Lukashenko from Minsk.
ANSWER: Belarus
4. Recently, scientists have postulated that Sostratos may have used this building as a vertical
yardstick in the first successful measurement of the Earth. Parts of this building were used to
build the Citadel of Qaitbay by a ruler of Circassian origin called Al-Ashraf Sayf. The island that
this building was on was connected to mainland Africa by the Heptastadion, which was later
destroyed by Julius Caesar. For the point, name this Wonder of the World also known as the
Pharos built by the Ptolemaic Dynasty in Egypt.
ANSWER: Lighthouse of Alexandria [Accept Pharos before mentioned]

5. The Rover incident saw aboriginal inhabitants of this island kill US sailors in what is now
Kenting National Park. This island’s Fort Zeelandia was founded by the Dutch VOC, and now
functions as Anping Fort. Those colonists were kicked off this island after the battle of Coxinga,
leading to the re-establishment of the Tungning Kingdom at the city of Tainan. The largest city on
this island along the Tashui River has a financial center with 101 floors. For the point, name this
island, formerly known as Formosa, where the Kuomintang Party has led the Republic of China.
ANSWER: Taiwan [Accept Formosa before mentioned]

6. A “Wire” one of these buildings in Curitiba, Brazil has steel tubings in place of a traditional
roof, and was built on a lake in a rock quarry. Another of these buildings in London often known
as “Covent Garden” was converted from a playhouse to accommodate the production of works
like Il Pastor Fido and Ariodante. Those aforementioned works were by George Frideric Handel.
Concrete shells roof one of these structures at Bennelong Point in Sydney Harbor. For the point,
name this type of building where the works of Verdi and Puccini are performed.
ANSWER: Opera Houses [Accept specific answers like The Royal Opera House]

7. It isn’t the USA, but this island’s area of New Jersey is home to Pitch Lake, which can be
traversed due the viscous mixture of water and tar. This island is known as “The Rainbow Island”
was the site of a mud volcano explosion in the town of Piparo. On this island, more than half of
the city of Chaguanas’ population is of Indian descent whose ancestors were brought in by the
British as indentured servants in the 19th century. This island is located just east of the Gulf of
Paria, and its largest city is the Port of Spain. For the point, name this island whose name
translates to “Trinity” in Spanish that is paired with Tobago in a Caribbean nation.
ANSWER: Trinidad [Do not accept Trinidad & Tobago at any point]

8. The centerpiece of this nation’s largest airport is a statue by Urs Fischer of a bronze teddy bear
with a lamp over its head. Through National Vision 2030, this nation plans to employ at least half
of its citizens, especially in its energy industry. The House of Thani have ruled this nation for in
recent decades, and the potential construction of the Salwa Canal has been threatened by its
southern neighbor, which would effectively make this country an island. For the point, name this
Middle Eastern host of the 2022 World Cup, centered on Doha.
ANSWER: State of Qatar
9. This location experienced huge environmental damage after the crash of the oil tanker MV
Jessica. This island chain was home to Lonesome George, a Pinta Island Tortoise who died in
2012 as perhaps the last of his species. This archipelago is also home to the only species of
penguin that lives north of the equator. A passenger aboard the HMS Beagle made numerous
sketches of bird beaks while visiting this archipelago. For the point, Charles Darwin studied the
finches of which island chain west of mainland Ecuador?
ANSWER: Galápagos Islands [accept Archipiélago de Colón; accept Las Islas Galápagos;
prompt on Pacific Ocean before “archipelago”]

10. Spain’s seizure of British merchant ships in this province’s Nootka Sound almost led to war
between those countries, and dealt a major blow to Spanish trade in the Pacific. This province is
home to an endangered marmot on its largest island, which is also the site of its capital. First
Nations tribes indigenous to this province include the Squamish and Tsimshian people, the latter
of which built totem poles. For the point, name this Canadian province whose cities include
Victoria and Vancouver.
ANSWER: British Columbia

11. The “Lesser” branch of this range includes the Chorak mountains, which are the ancestral
home of the Lazurite people. This range’s Mount Kazbek is supposedly the site where the local
Prometheus figure, Amirani, is punished. After the flood, Noah’s Ark supposedly rested on Mt.
Ararat, an extreme southern member of this range. The tallest mountain in this range is Mt.
Elbrus. For the point, name this Eurasian mountain range between the Black Sea and Caspian Sea.
ANSWER: Caucasus Mountains

12. A replica of this building in a US city’s Centennial Park was designed by Confederate veteran
William Crawford Smith. An expedition led by Francesco Morosini fired artillery rounds at this
building from the Hill of Philopappos, damaging this edifice in the 17th century. At the behest of
Culture Minister Melina Mercouri, this building’s nation has asked for the return of sculptures
made by Phidias that reside in the British Museum — the so-called Elgin Marbles. For the point,
name this temple dedicated to Athena that sits on the Acropolis.
ANSWER: Parthenon

13. University students in this city painted a 400 foot tall “S” on Cowles Mountain in the 1930s,
leading to it sometimes being called S Mountain. This city first began having a large US Navy
presence after the opening of its Navy Coaling Station at Point Loma, later on seeing expansions
like the La Jolla military base. The open air Spreckels Organ Pavilion can be found in the larger
Balboa Park, which was used for a 1915 exposition meant to tout this city as a premier port of the
Pacific after the opening of the Panama Canal. For the point, name this California port city across
the Mexican border from Tijuana.
ANSWER: San Diego
14. A sole electoral vote in this state was won by Barack Obama in 2008. A school district in this
state was centered at Joslyn Castle, a mansion built by the namesake Western Newspaper Union
magnate. This state’s town of Alliance is the site of thirty-eight cars arranged in a circle known as
Carhenge. This state’s largest city contains the headquarters of Berkshire Hathaway, and is on the
banks of the Missouri River. For the point, name this Great Plains state with capital at Lincoln.
ANSWER: Nebraska

15. A festival in this nation named for Lake Ypacarai was banned by the national ministry of the
interior in the 1980s. This nation named one of its departments after the US President Rutherford
B. Hayes who helped resolve a boundary dispute between this nation and its southern neighbor.
This nation’s namesake river was the starting point of the Roosevelt Scientific Expedition,
sponsored by the American Museum of Natural History, following the path of the River of Doubt.
The Rio Parana makes up much of this nation’s southern border with Argentina. For the point,
name this South American nation with capital at Asuncion.
ANSWER: Paraguay

16. A statue of Norwegian composer Ole Bull can be found in this city’s Loring Park. This city’s
namesake “Sculpture Garden” is home a large outdoor fixture by Claes Oldenburg and Coosje
Van Bruggen called Spoonbridge and Cherry. This city along the Mississippi River has a scenic
trail that takes visitors to Minnehaha Falls and through the historic mill district. This city’s name
comes from schoolteacher Charles Hoag combining the Sioux word for “water” with the Greek
word with “city.” For the point, name this Minnesota “Twin City” adjacent to its capital of St.
Paul.
ANSWER: Minneapolis

17. At these places, visitors often write wishes on small wooden plaques called emas to beings
called Kannon. One of these places named Usa Jingu hosts a yearly festival to honor the souls of
the fish lost to fishing industry and is often accompanied by a kagura dance. These places have
gates called torii, and the one at Ise (pr. EE-say) is rebuilt every 20 years. For the point, name
these holy places with sanctuaries called honden that hold the kami spirit.
ANSWER: Shinto Shrine [Accept Shinsha or more generic wording like “Shinto place of
worship”]

18. This town is home to a parade called the P-Rade that begins near Cannon Green. Local
university president Aaron Burr Sr. and his more famous son are buried in this town’s cemetery.
This town is home to a museum dedicated to Einstein, who lived and died in this town in the
1950’s. Following the Battle of Trenton, George Washington attacked a detachment of Lord
Cornwallis’ men led by Charles Mahwood at this Mid-Atlantic college town. For the point, name
this central New Jersey town home to an Ivy League school.
ANSWER: Princeton
19. This river’s namesake “Knee” occurs in the city of Bingen, where its course turns from
westward to northward. A city along this river has a cathedral ordered by a 13th century Holy
Roman Emperor to hold the relics of the Biblical “Three Kings,” but was not completed until the
19th century by the government of Wilhelm II. That city along this river is Cologne. In violation
of the Treaty of Versailles, a region named for this river was “remilitarized” by Nazi Germany in
1936. For the point, name this Western European river that flows through Germany and the
Netherlands, emptying into the North Sea.
ANSWER: Rhine River [Accept Rijn, Rhenus, and Rhein]

20. This island’s Deer Cave has a 100 meter deep guano reserve, and Prince Albert II of Monaco
went to nearby Gunung Mala National Park to set up a surveillance system to monitor endemic
bats. This third largest island in the world was rocked by the 2015 Sabah earthquake, which killed
18 visitors climbing this island’s highest peak of Mount Kinabalu. The province of Sarawak is on
this island. Along with nearby Sumatra, this is one of two islands where orangutans can be found
in the wild. For the point, name this island shared between the Sultanate of Brunei, Indonesia, and
Malaysia.
ANSWER: Borneo [Accept Kalimantan]

21. A now defunct one of these places known affectionately as “The Bathtub” was the site of the
1951 death of Ray Chapman from a head injury. The only one of these locations currently in use
with a permanent roof is Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida, and the installation of lights at
one of these sites caused consternation in Chicago's Wrigleyville neighborhood. For the point,
name these structures including one named Fenway Park, which is home to the Boston Red Sox.
ANSWER: Major League Baseball Stadium [accept words like Field, Yards, or Park in place
of “Stadium”)

22. Among all cities that are the second largest by population in a US state, this one has the
largest population at about 1.5 million. This seat of Bexar [pr. "BAY-har"] County has a site
named the Tower of the Americas, an observation tower and restaurant built for the 1968 World
Fair. A large event in this city once known as “The Fiesta San Jacinto” commemorates the victory
of the Lone Star Republic over Mexican forces, and the only US Army base in this city’s limits is
Fort Sam Houston. For the point, name this Texan city that is home to the Alamo Mission.
ANSWER: San Antonio

23. An island often known as “The Holy Island” in this sea has a pyramidal lighthouse called the
Emmanuel Head Beacon. This sea lies on top of what was once known as Doggerland, which has
been submerged for thousands of years. The Sverd i fjell monument alongside this sea consists of
three ten-meter-tall stone swords in the city of Stavanger. For the point, name this sea that the
Vikings crossed to attack the Anglo-Saxon Kingdoms in the 9th century AD.
ANSWER: North Sea [Accept Noordzee, Nordsjøen, or Mer du Nord]
24. Gahini, founded by the Church Missionary Society, lies along this nation’s Lake Muhazi. This
nation has had border spats with its western neighbor, who alleges that this country has been
backing the M23 rebellion in the North Kivu province. This nation experienced a hundred-day
countrywide massacre of Tutsis at the hands of the majority ethnic group, the Hutus. For the
point, name this African nation led by Paul Kagame (pr. kuh-GAH-may) from Kigali.
ANSWER: Republic of Rwanda

25. This river’s traditional source is a body that means “Lion’s Mouth” and is the near the holy
mountain Mt. Kailash. Alexander the Great founded a town named after his horse, Bucephalus
near this river after his battle at the nearby Hydaspes River. This river’s namesake dolphin, also
known as the Blind River Dolphin, is critically endangered and typically only found between the
Kotri and Jinnah barrages. For the point, name this river that names an ancient civilization whose
major cities included Mohenjo-Daro and Harappa.
ANSWER: Indus River [Accept Sindhu]

26. Due to logging and deforestation, this nation’s largest source of freshwater, Lake Yojoa, is in
danger of turning into a swamp. After deliberation from Alfonso XIII of Spain, the border
between this nation and its southern neighbor were set beginning at Cabo Gracias a Dios. This
country that controls the Islas de Bahia in the Caribbean also has a 95-mile coastline on the
Pacific Ocean. Hurricane Mitch devastated this country and its southern neighbor, Nicaragua, in
1998. For the point, name this Central American nation with cities like San Pedro Sula and
Tegucigalpa.
ANSWER: Republic of Honduras

27. All members of the British indie band Viola Beach died while crossing the Södertälje Canal
bridge in a suburb of this city that lies along Lake Malar. Gamla Stan, or “Old Town,” was the
site of this city’s namesake “Bloodbath” in Stortorget Square. Four museum ships, including the
icebreaker Sankt Erik make up the larger Vasa Museum complex in this city. This city names an
effect where hostages sympathize with and even protect their captors after it was first observed
here in the 1970s. For the point, name this largest city in Scandinavia and capital of Sweden.
ANSWER: Stockholm

28. A caravan route named Azalai still transports this commodity using a string of viable oases
created by the Kaouar cliffs. While in his way Oualata, famed traveler Ibn Battuta came across a
location called Taghaza that produced this commodity and noted that it was only inhabited by
Musafa slaves. In West Africa, it was not uncommon for traders to burn mangrove leaves to
retrieve this commodity from the ashes. For the point, name this good often traded in exchange
for gold by the Ghana Empire.
ANSWER: Salt
29. The Treaty of Karlowitz brought German settlers to this nation’s Mecsek (pr. MAY-chek)
mountain range in the region Baranya. This nation’s Zala River flows into its Lake Balaton. This
nation’s eastern half is dominated by the Great Alföld, a part of the larger Pannonian Plain. This
European country’s national language is most closely related to the Mansy and Khanty languages
of Russia and more distantly to Estonian and Finnish. For the point, name this Central European
nation once unified with Austria, whose capital is Budapest.
ANSWER: Hungary

30. An equestrian statue in this location that depicts the victorious Jogaila after the Battle of
Grunwald was gifted by the Poles during a 1930’s World Fair. A structure in this location,
Belvedere Castle, acts as both a weather station and observation deck. Paul Simon and Art
Garfunkel gave a free benefit concert in and for this location in 1981. A co-designer of this
location, Calvert Vaux (pr. VOE), constructed all 36 bridges in this park according to his
Greensward Plan. For the point, name this urban park designed by Frederick Law Olmsted in
Manhattan, New York.
ANSWER: Central Park


Extra
31. It’s not Washington State, but one region in this location named the Aeolis Quadrangle is
home to the Columbia Hills. Percival Lowell once believed that the capital of this location was
Solis Lacus, due to the “canals” that intersected there. This location’s largest peak, which is on
the edge of Tharsis Edge, is often paired with three other peaks named Arcreaus, Pavonis, and
Arsia, the latter being a holy forest of Rome. The shield volcano Olympus Mons is on, for the
point, what planet named for a Roman God of War?
ANSWER: Mars
