           2019 International Geography Bee
         US Middle School & Elementary School
               National Championships
                     Preliminary Round 4
1. During New Years celebrations for these people, they play a ball tossing game called pov pob
and shamans revere and release spirits called She-Yee. Shong Lang Sue’s created this people’s
script Pahawh script. In the 19th century, the Qing (pr. Ching) waged a war against this ethnic
group, forcing them to flee to the Kingdom of Nanzhao while many refugees of this ethnic group
have settled in the Minneapolis area in recent decades. For the point, name this Asian ethnic
group also known as the Miao who were persecuted and expelled from Laos and Vietnam in 20th
century.
ANSWER: Hmong People [Accept Miao before mentioned]

2. This island’s extremely wet and tropical Big Bog, borders its Hāna Forest Reserve near where
Charles Lindbergh lies buried. Off the west coast of this island are the Lahaina Roads, a channel
that was commonly populated with whalers in the mid-19th century. When this island’s name
precedes the word “Nui,” it refers to a group of islands including Lāna’i, Moloka’i, and this
island. For the point, name this second-largest Hawaiian island, which shares its name with a
Polynesian trickster and demigod.
ANSWER: Maui

3. The McMenamin brothers converted many of this city’s cinemas and schoolhouses into
profitable breweries. A coin toss determined this city’s name; the coin in question is now
alliteratively known as this city’s penny. The diagonal street pattern of this city’s Ladd's
Addition neighborhood lies to the west of Mount Tabor and near the Ross Island and Marquam
Bridges. Nike is headquartered in this city’s suburb of Beaverton. The Willamette River flows
through this city, and an unofficial nickname for this city is its airport code, PDX. For the point,
name this “City of Roses,” the largest in Oregon.
ANSWER: Portland
4. The business model of Richard Branson’s new Virgin Voyages cruise line is under threat due
to shift in policy that may make it harder to visit this city. The yacht Granma is on display at a
former presidential palace in this city’s old district. At a neighborhood named after this city in
Miami, Florida, visitors can watch elderly men play dominoes. For the point, name this capital
taken by the revolutionary forces of Fidel Castro at the culmination of the Cuban Revolution.
ANSWER: Havana [Accept La Habana]

5. This state is home to the overtly touristy town of Rothenburg (pr. ROE-ten-boorg) ob der
Tauber. A forest named for this state is a remnant of the Hercynian Forest, and the Regen River
flows from the Czech Republic through this state. This state is home to the world’s largest folk
festival which contrary to its name is mostly held in September. For the point, name this region
of southern Germany where war criminals were judged at Nuremburg and where Oktoberfest is
celebrated in Munich.
ANSWER: Bavaria [Accept Bayern]

6. A recreation of the burial chamber of the Lord of Sipan, a Moche (pr. MOH-chay) mummy,
is at this city’s Museo de la Nación. This city’s Barranco district is a center of the arts and home
to writers like Mario Vargas Llosa (pr. YOE-sah). This city is known as “The Pearl of the
Pacific," and it is home to the longest continuously operating university in the Americas. That
university was founded in this city in 1552 not long after this city was founded in 1535 by
Francisco Pizarro. For the point, name this coastal South American city, the capital of Peru.
ANSWER: Lima [Accept Ciudad de los Reyes]

7. This island’s regional variety of fried breadcrumb balls stuffed with rice named Arancini are
conical to represent a nearby mountain. Directly north of this island are the islands of Lipari and
Salina, which are two of eight islands in an archipelago named for the wind god Aeolus. The real
life mobster Bernardo Provenzano was born in the town of Corleone (pr. cor-lay-OH-nay) on
this island, just like several characters from The Godfather. The philosopher Empedocles
attempted to prove he was a god by jumping into this island’s volcano, Mt. Etna. For the point,
name this island with cities like Palermo and Syracuse, south of mainland Italy.
ANSWER: Sicily

8. Local poet Ricardo Miro coined the name for this city’s presidential abode, Heron’s Palace,
due to the large amount of birds perched on it. This city’s old district was burned down by the
marauding forces of Captain Henry Morgan in the 17th century, leading to the building of the
Casco Viejo walled city. Many neighborhoods caught fire during George H.W. Bush’s invasion
of this city to oust dictator Manuel Noriega. For the point, name this capital city of a Central
American nation known for a US-built canal.
ANSWER: Panama City [Accept Ciudad de Panamá]
9. Fort Peck Dam was built during the Second World War in this state as part of the northwestern
section of the Pick-Sloan Plan, forming a reservoir from the Missouri River. This state’s city of
Bozeman was the site of the smallest National History Bee Regional Finals tournament this year.
Visitors to this home of Glacier National Park can see the statue Our Lady of the Rockies near
this state’s town of Butte. For the point, name this US state known as “Big Sky Country” and
governed from Helena.
ANSWER: Montana

10. The southernmost one of these buildings holds the Erebus Chalice, which was once thought
to have accompanied the crew of the namesake ship during the Ross Expedition. The Broken
Obelisk by Barnett Newman sits in front of one of these places named for the abstract
expressionist Mark Rothko. The main campus of the University of North Carolina is in a city
named for a hill with this type of religious building. For the point, name this type of religious
building that includes one named for Sixtus IV in the Apostolic Palace that had its ceiling
painted by Michelangelo.
ANSWER: Chapels [Accept any specific answerline like Chapel Hill or the Sistine Chapel]

11. A famed cook from this culture supposedly fed pigs he intended to eat only figs, then made
them overdose on honeyed wine. These people’s love for a possible variety of Giant Fennel used
for seasoning named Silphium led to its extinction in Libya. First given to them by an eastern
neighbor, these people often used a savory, fermented fish sauce named garum. Many recipes of
this culture can be found in a collection named On the Art of Cookery by a gourmet named
Marcus Gavius Apicius. For the point, name these people whose poorer class, the plebians, often
ate at roadside inns called popinae.
ANSWER: Roman people [Accept Latin culture]

12. Roald Amundsen drafted 97 of this island’s namesake dog breed for his traversal of the
Antarctic. Robert Peary reached this island’s northernmost point, Cape Morris Jesup, at the turn
of the 20th century. This island contains the world’s largest National Park, which was the first
created by the ruling Kingdom of Denmark. Erik the Red was supposedly exiled to this island
after killing a man in Iceland. For the point, name this majority Inuit island with capital at Nuuk.
ANSWER: Greenland

13. Minister Natalia Korolevska refused to recognize the settlers around this city in 2013 but
agreed to give them social support. This city’s namesake exclusion zone, also known as the “30
Kilometre Zone,” is populated by over 100 samosely, who are elderly residents who persist in
living there. For the point, name this city in Ukraine whose nuclear reactor exploded in 1986,
creating a namesake disaster throughout Europe.
ANSWER: Chernobyl
14. Locals of this city believe that demons called tipua live on Rangitoto Island off of its coast. A
2006 blackout in this city tracked back to this city’s Otahuhu Station caused this city’s Sky
Tower to be temporarily taken offline. This city on the Hauraki Gulf is the site of the Art Gallery
Toi o Tāmaki, which had an early collection of Maori art. For the point, name this largest city in
New Zealand.
ANSWER: Auckland

15. A painting set at this location shows Pope Pius VII solemnly overlooking a coronation while
the title figure’s mother, Letizia Ramolino looks on, even though she wasn’t at that event. This
building was once rededicated to the “Cult of the Supreme Being” to support Deism. Renovation
done on this building has been linked to a fire that broke out here, leading to the partial collapse
of its roof in April 2019. For the point, name this cathedral situated on Île de la Cité on the Seine
whose name translates to “Our Lady of Paris.”
ANSWER: Notre Dame de Paris

16. The Kailash glacier feeds this region’s Lake Manasarovar, which is holy in the Bon religion
for being the home of the deity of Zhang Zhung. The three historical regions of this area are U-
Tsang, Kham, and Amdo, and it lost its autonomy in 1950 after the signing of the Seventeen
Point Agreement. The bodhisattva Avalokiteśvara is said to have lived at the site where the
Potala Palace is today in this region’s capital of Lhasa. For the point, name this modern day
autonomous region in the People’s Republic of China, once led by the Dalai Lama.
ANSWER: Tibet [Accept Xīzàng]

17. This city’s neighborhood of George Town contains a port district called Parry’s Corner,
named for an 18th century Welsh merchant. The Telugu Ganga is a water project enacted by the
neighboring state of Andhra Pradesh to divert water from the Krishna River to this city’s state.
This coastal city is located north of Puducherry and due east of Bengaluru on the Bay of Bengal.
For the point, name this capital of Tamil Nadu once known as Madras.
ANSWER: Chennai [Accept Madras before mentioned]

18. Reijo Kela created over a thousand scarecrows that overlook this nation’s Highway 5.
Visitors to this nation’s Rovaniemi Santa Village can get a stamp saying they have crossed the
Arctic Circle. This nation’s Aura river runs through its city of Turku, which is also the site of the
Sibelius Museum. For the point, name this nation known in its native tongue as Suomi that has
cities like Tampere (pr. TAHM-peh-reh) and Helsinki.
ANSWER: Republic of Finland [Accept Suomi before mentioned]
19. Anti-US feelings were sparked on this island when Captain John Schmitt crashed his F-100
Super Sabre into a middle school here. The Choyo Banquet was a feast and sailing competition
held at this island’s Shuri Castle, which flourished during the Second Sho dynasty. Reporter
Ernie Pyle died just off this island in 1945 while covering its invasion. This island’s capital of
Naha is on its southern coast, next to the East China Sea. For the point, name this most populous
member of the Ryukyu Islands that names a Japonic language spoken there.
ANSWER: Okinawa

20. The two-and-a-half-meter-wide Minimal House in this city was allegedly owned by a former
slave, but was likely created due to poor urban planning. This city is home to the extremely wide
July 9 Avenue and the opera house Teatro Colón. The Boca Juniors and River Plate are rival
soccer clubs in this city where Pope Francis was born. For the point, both the Pink House and the
Rio de la Plata can be found in what capital city of Argentina?
ANSWER: Buenos Aires

21. Mythology says that both sides of this waterway were occupied by floating rocks named the
Symplegades that would crush passing boats. One nation’s rejection of the Treaty of Lausanne
led to the remilitarization of this waterway, reversing the Treaty of Sevres by the Entente. A
bridge along this strait was renamed after soldiers died defending it during a recent coup against
the Erdogan (pr. AIR-doe-wan) government. For the point, a city once known as Constantinople
lies on both sides of what waterway connecting the Sea of Marmara to the Black Sea?
ANSWER: Bosporus Strait [accept Bosphorus Strait]

22. The living fossil Welwitschia can only be found in this desert, while the northern third of this
desert known as Kaokoveld features gravel plains interspersed with rugged mountains. Max
Siedentopf set up an mp3 player in this desert that continuously plays Toto’s “Africa” through
six white speakers. This desert at the foot of the Great Escarpment merges with the Kalahari
Desert in its south. For the point, name this desert that names a southwest African country with
the cities of Walvis Bay and Windhoek.
ANSWER: Namib Desert (Do NOT accept or prompt on “Namibia”)

23. The fishing community of Cardigan on this island hosts the smallest library in its country
while this island's city of Summerside is on the Northumberland Strait. This island is the
namesake of mussels that can often be found on the menus of restaurants that serve expensive
seafood. This island is home to the Campbell House, which inspired local writer Lucy Maud
Montgomery to write Anne of Green Gables, and it is connected to New Brunswick by the
Confederation Bridge. For the point, name this smallest province of Canada, with capital at
Charlottetown.
ANSWER: Prince Edward Island
24. The death of the general Kingfisher at the Battle of Taliwa caused a subset of these people to
be led by Nancy Ward, a woman who supported cohabitation with encroaching Europeans. Near
present day Calhoun, this nation chose half-native, half-Scot John Ross to lead them, and these
people were one of the five major Native tribes deported by the Indian Removal Act, along with
the Seminole, Creek, Chickasaw, and Choctaw. For the point, name these people of the
Southeastern United States whose leader, Sequoyah, constructed a writing system for them.
ANSWER: Cherokee [Accept Tsalagi]

25. Many wealthy denizens of this city have moved to a neighborhood in the northern hills
named Tajrish due to low levels of aerial pollution there. The infamous Evin Prison is found in
this city where public executions became much more common after 1979. This city was once
ruled by the baladie municipal law, until it was abolished by Reza Shah. For the point, name this
city served by Imam Khomeini Airport that is the capital of Iran.
ANSWER: Tehran

26. One national park in this country consists of many imposing limestone spires and has a name
that translates as “where one cannot walk barefoot.” This country’s capital was the site of a
massive palace complex, known as Andrianjaka’s rova, which burned down in 1995. This
country was the site of the historical Merina Kingdom, which was led by numerous queens
named Ranavalona, and it was home to the now-extinct elephant bird. French and Malagasy are
the official languages of, for the point, what home of lemurs, the largest Indian Ocean island?
ANSWER: Republic of Madagascar

27. An artificial stream called The Golden Water River runs through this site. This site’s Hall of
Union, which hosted the imperial water clock, makes up the inner court along with the adjacent
Palace of Heavenly Purity and Palace of Earthly Tranquility. Typically, the use of the Meridian
Gate in this site was reserved for the emperor, but every three years the top three scholars of the
Civil Service Exam could exit through the gate. For the point, name this walled-off complex in
Beijing that was the home of both the Ming and Qing (pr. CHING) emperors.
ANSWER: Forbidden City [Accept Forbidden Palace Complex]

28. Moshe Safdie’s graduate thesis became the basis of this city’s Habitat 67, an apartment
complex made up of cube homes constructed for a world exposition, much like this city’s
Buckminster Fuller-designed Biosphere, located on a river island. This city’s Underground City
network of walkways connect places like Concordia University and McGill University. For the
point, name this largest city on the St. Lawrence River and the home of the Canadiens hockey
team.
ANSWER: Montreal
29. A 1965 Boeing 727 was converted into an elevated restaurant at this country’s Costa Verde
resort. In this nation’s Diquís Valley, United Fruit uncovered perfectly round stone balls created
by a lost civilization. This country’s soccer team is known as the toucans, and it has been the
most politically stable country in its region for years, leading to its nickname as the Switzerland
of Central America. For the point, name this country north of Panama known for its ecotourism
with its capital at San Jose.
ANSWER: Costa Rica

30. A tribunal in the city of Arusha prevented a road sponsored by Jakaya Kikwete from being
built in this geographical region in 2014. This region which means “endless plains” is believed to
have the largest lion population in Africa, and it hosts an annual migration of 1.5 million
Wildebeests. For the point, name this geographical region in northern Tanzania that also names a
national park.
ANSWER: Serengeti Plains [or Serengeti National Park]

Extra

31. Directly to south of this kingdom is a mountainous polity ruled from a high castle at Anvard,
and that region was temporarily occupied by the Telmarine people. Frank and Helen, a former
cab driver and his rural wife, were the first monarchs of this nation. Much of the Great River
runs through this nation, with its mouth at this nation’s capital of Cair Paravel. Four siblings who
moved to the countryside to avoid the London Blitz became rulers of this nation after the First
Battle of Beruna in the year 1000. For the point, name this land ruled by members of Pevensey
family that names a “Chronicle” by CS Lewis.
ANSWER: Narnia
