           2019 International Geography Bee
         US Middle School & Elementary School
               National Championships
                    Preliminary Round 1
1. A small arm of this body of water, Little Traverse Bay, was the site of a Jesuit mission named L'arbre
de Croche. From May to October, the historic steam ship SS Badger operates as a ferry across this body
of water, connecting the towns of Manitowoc and Ludington. The Winnebago tribe largely inhabited the
Door Peninsula, which juts into this body of water. The Straits of Mackinac (pr. MACK-in-aw) connect
this body of water to the neighboring Lake Huron. For the point, name this Great Lake that shares its
name with the US state that contains Detroit.
ANSWER: Lake Michigan

2. A city in this nation is home to the Monastery of Jesus, which contains the tomb of Princess Joana
who refused multiple royal marriages to stay at a convent. The Douro Valley of this country is a major
global center for the production of fortified wines. This nation’s highest point of Mount Pico is a
member of the Mid-Atlantic Range and is the tallest mountain in the Azores. The Tagus (pr. TAY-juss)
River empties into the Atlantic Ocean in this nation. For the point, name this Iberian country with cities
like Porto and Lisbon.
ANSWER: Portugal

3. An ancient city along this river was known for its towering gates named for local gods like
Amash and Nergal, with those gates being flanked by Lamassu statues. During the Siege of Kut
in the First World War, the British used Indian paddlers to navigate and take supplies down this
river. A rift lake named Hazar nestled in the Taurus Mountains is the source of this river. A
hydroelectric dam once named for Saddam Hussein generates power from this river for the
nearby city of Mosul. For the point, name this Mesopotamian river that is east of the Euphrates
River.
ANSWER: Tigris River [Accept Dijlah]
4. The second-largest city in this nation is the site of "La Sebastiana" on Cerro Florida, the home
of the writer of Elemental Odes. This country controls an island in the Pacific where Alexander
Selkirk, was trapped for five years, which became Daniel Defoe’s inspiration for the novel
Robinson Crusoe. As result of the War of the Pacific, this nation captured the city of Antofagasta
from the now landlocked Bolivia and kept it after the Treaty of Peace and Friendship. For the
point, name this narrow South American nation that is governed from Santiago.
ANSWER: Chile

5. Woody Guthrie wrote a song exhorting this river to roll on as it “turned our darkness into
dawn.” A nuclear production site along this river is the most contaminated nuclear site in all of
the US, that site was used extensively in the Manhattan Project and is named the Hanford Site.
Between the cities of Kennewick and Richland, one can find Bateman Island, which marks the
farthest upstream Lewis and Clark ever went upstream on this river. This river’s major tributaries
include the Willamette and the Snake River. For the point, name this river that forms much of the
border between Oregon and Washington in the Pacific Northwest of the United States.
ANSWER: Columbia River

6. This city participates in no-drive days to improve air quality in a program that translates to
“Today, your car does not move.” A recent civic program in this city called the “Barrios
Mágicos” has promoted its neighborhoods like the Zona Rosa and Colonia Roma. One can visit
the ruins of the Templo Mayor in this city, and the Angel of Independence was built under the
rule of Porfirio Diaz in this city. For the point, name this capital of a North American country
built upon what was once Tenochtitlan, the Aztec capital.
ANSWER: Mexico City [Accept Ciudad de México or Distrito Federal de Mexico]

7. This city is home to the only main offices outside of the USA or Europe of the United Nations.
Violence in this city’s Kibera slum has given this city a nickname referencing the crime of
robbery. This city whose name comes from the Maasai word for “cool water” has a statue
resembling the raising of the US flag on Iwo Jima but instead it is an African nation’s flag in its
Uhuru Park. In that park in this city, one can find both the Moi monument to one president and
the Kenyatta memorial to another. For the point, name this capital of Kenya.
ANSWER: Nairobi

8. This region is home to the oasis town of Kashgar which was an important stop on the Silk
Road. This region, which is largely divided into the Tarim and Dzungarian Basins, borders
Gansu and Qinghai and it has recently been at the center of international outrage regarding
millions of its residents being placed into so-called “re-education” camps. For the point, name
this largest Chinese administrative division, whose position in China’s northwest includes
numerous Uyghurs (pr. WEE-ghurs) and other Muslim minorities.
ANSWER: Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region
9. It’s not in India, but a monument in this city commemorates the victory of the Mahabharata
hero in the Arjuna Wijaya. A tall white column in this city commemorating a victory at Waterloo
is near an area called “The Buffalo’s Field,” which is adjacent to the White House built by then-
governor Herman Daendels. While a colony, this city was known by an old name for the
Netherlands, Batavia. For the point, name this most populous city on the world’s most populous
island; a city on the northern coast of Java and the capital of Indonesia.
ANSWER: Jakarta [Accept Batavia before mentioned]

10. This river’s namesake “Project” saw the construction of the Caballo Dam near a place named
for an NBC radio quiz show, the town of Truth and Consequences. A shift in this river’s course
led to the Chamizal dispute between two nations, which saw them vie for control of the newly
created Cordova Island. This river also known as the Rio Bravo has tributaries such as the Pecos
River and the San Juan River. For the point, name this river that forms the eastern half of the
Mexico-United States border.
ANSWER: Rio Grande (del Norte) [accept Rio Bravo del Norte) before mentioned]

11. This city contains the “I Love You” Wall in Jehan-Rictus Square, which contains the title
phrase in 192 languages. A favorite of the fictional James Bond, Harry’s New York Bar in this
city was often visited by US expats like Ernest Hemingway and was where George Gershwin
supposedly thought up a certain musical set here. This city’s Musée de Cluny, built over former
Roman Baths, is home to the tapestry “The Lady and the Unicorn.” For the point, name this
European capital with sites like the Rodin Museum and the Arc de Triomphe.
ANSWER: Paris

12. One of these places made from mud and reeds in the Ghanaian village of Larabanga was built
after the merchant Ayuba had a prophetic dream. A cameleer named Kadir constructed a
thatched one of these in the Australian Outback, the first on that continent. Another of these in
the former capital of Xi'an primarily serves the Hui people who historically were a part of the
Uyghur Khaganate. The al-Haram one of these structures contains the holy Kaaba and is in
Mecca. For the point, name these places of worship in Islam.
ANSWER: Mosques

13. The Republic of Minerva was a failed attempt to create a breakaway libertarian utopia in a
group of reclaimed coral reefs, but this nation’s king denied it. This nation’s namesake island
gained hundreds of additional square meters of land during the 2009 eruption of Hunga Ha’apai.
Along with Switzerland and Denmark, this country’s flag is red and white and features a cross.
This nation saw 2006 riots against the government of Akilisi Pōhiva in its capital, Nuku‘alofa.
For the point, name this only kingdom of Polynesia, also known as the “Friendly Kingdom” for
the residents’ kindness to James Cook.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Tonga
14. A 500 word essay by Nebraska native William Andrew Burkett can be found on a plaque at
this mountain. Members of the American Indian Movement led by John Fire Lame Deer
temporarily occupied this site in 1971 and declared it “Mount Crazy Horse.” This mountain,
sometimes known as “The Shrine of Democracy,” is located south of Rapid City and features the
work of Gutzon Borglum, whose son took it over as a project after his 1941 death. For the point,
name this mountain that is home to a relief depicting American Presidents Lincoln, Washington,
Roosevelt, and Jefferson.
ANSWER: Mt. Rushmore National Memorial

15. The highest concentration of leopards in the world is in this nation’s Yala National Park in its
Uva province. In some Islamic and Christian traditions, this nation’s Adam’s Peak is where the
namesake first man first stepped on earth. This nation’s Mahaweli River begins in the Kandy
District and empties into Trincomalee Bay. This Buddhist nation’s Sinhalese majority have long
controlled its government, leading to the rise of a Tamil insurgency beginning in the late 1950s.
For the point, name this nation once called Ceylon, whose largest city is Colombo.
ANSWER: Sri Lanka

16. Annually, Roman Catholics recreate a 14th century miracle where the sacramental bread
would not burn by taking the “Silent Walk” around this city. The Singel was a medieval moat
that is now the innermost canal in this city’s extensive 100-kilometer canal system. This city’s
Rijksmuseum (pr. RIKES-museum) hosts many native artworks like The Milkmaid by Johannes
Vermeer and The Nightwatch by Rembrandt. For the point, name this city on the Amstel River,
the capital of the Netherlands.
ANSWER: Amsterdam

17. A giant metal cone surrounds this city’s Coop Shot Tower, which was a 19th century
producer of lead bullets. This city was first inhabited by settlers coming from Van Diemen's
Land and is just north of Port Phillip, on the mouth of the Yarra River. This city was the first city
in the Southern Hemisphere to host the Olympics, doing so in 1956. For the point, name this
capital of the state of Victoria that is the second largest city in Australia after Sydney.
ANSWER: Melbourne

18. Prisoners, including former Prime Minister Yoro Diakite, were sent to a prison in the north of
this country that acted as a salt mine near the city of Taoudenni. Much of this country’s Kidal
Region is covered by the Adrar des Ifoghas, a set of mountains named for an aristocratic Tuareg
clan. After the Fulani leader Seku Amadu successfully performed a jihad, he built the Great
Mosque of Djenne in this modern day country. This nation existed in a namesake federation for
two months in 1960 with its western neighbor, Senegal. For the point, name this nation once
known as French Sudan that has cities like Timbuktu and Bamako.
ANSWER: Republic of Mali
19. The southern portion of this state has gained the moniker “Optics Valley” due to presence of
research centers like the Steward Observatory and Mount Graham International Observatory.
The Chiricahua (pr. chir-ick-OW-uh) Mountains in this state are home to the USA’s greatest
diversity of hummingbird species. On orders of Brigham Young, Daniel Webster Jones left Utah
in 1877 to found this state’s city of Mesa, which is now the second-largest city in Maricopa
County. This state temporarily had its capital at Prescott, and is located southwest of the Four
Corners monument. For the point, name this state that is the site of Grand Canyon National Park,
and whose capital is its largest city, Phoenix.
ANSWER: Arizona

20. Operation Nimbus Cloud was an effort spearheaded by the US to clear mines from this
waterway for future commercial passage. This waterway’s Great Bitter Lake was home to the
Yellow Fleet, a group of 15 Western merchant vessels stuck there for 8 years due to one conflict.
A crisis named for this structure occurred after Gamal Abdel Nasser nationalized it, leading to a
combined Israeli, British and French force reclaiming it for a year. Port Said is along, for the
point, what canal built by the British and owned by Egypt?
ANSWER: Suez Canal

21. Docked in this city’s harbor is the SS American Victory, a retired mid 20th century cargo
ship museum. Mythical pirate José Gaspar names an annual pirate festival in this city that
includes a large procession at Bayshore Boulevard. Cuban and Spanish immigrants turned this
city’s district of Ybor (pr. EE-bore) City into a hub for cigar manufacturing. The Howard
Frankland Bridge crosses this city’s namesake Bay to connect it to St. Petersburg. For the point,
name this city on the Gulf of Mexico, the second most populous in Florida.
ANSWER: Tampa [do not accept "Tampa Bay"]

22. The Kri-Kri is a threatened species of Ibex found only in this island’s White Mountains. A
district once called “Sabbionara,” which means “The Gates of Sand,” in this island’s city of
Kydonia, sits adjacent to the house of a local hero named Eleftherios Venizelos. This island lies
south of the Icarian Sea and was the site of a major German paratroop invasion in World War II.
This island's largest city and capital is Heraklion and the Minoan civilization of this island was
responsible for edifices like the Palace at Knossos. For the point, name this island south of
mainland Greece which was the site of a mythical Labyrinth.
ANSWER: Crete
23. Summits in this range like the Salkantay are seen as representatives of native folklore spirits
that live in caves called “Apus.” Because it resembles two nuns and four priests, a mountain in
this range is known as “El Altar.” This range is home to multiple camelid species, including the
wild Vicuña and the Guanaco. Some major cities in this range include Cuenca, Cali, and Quito.
For the point, name this longest continental mountain range in the world with peaks like
Chimborazo and Aconcagua, that dominates much of western South America.
ANSWER: Andes Mountains

24. This building's glass dome, designed by Norman Foster, is meant to represent that the people
are above the government, since visitors stand above this governmental building. Bulgarian-
American artist Christo and his wife wrapped this structure in Polypropylene in honor of its
reconstruction. Yevgeny Khaldei took a photo of a Red Army soldier hoisting the Soviet Flag on
this building on May Day, 1945. A Dutch Communist named Marinus Van der Lubbe was
blamed for a 1933 fire at this building by the recently elected Hitler regime. For the point, name
this meeting place of the Bundestag in Berlin, Germany.
ANSWER: Reichstag

25. A popular hiking trail at this mountain is named for early 20th century donkey train pioneer
Fred Barr. This mountain was renamed from “El Capitan” to honor a Jefferson-era explorer and
brigadier general who died at Battle of York during the War of 1812. Katharine Lee Bates
penned the basic outline of the song “America the Beautiful” while admiring this summit. For
the point, name this Rocky Mountain in Colorado named for a man with the first name Zebulon.
ANSWER: Pikes Peak

26. A city built by these people includes the Temple of the Inscriptions, which has piers
depicting a serpent-legged thunder deity named God K and a polydactyl king named Kan B'alam
II. Penn State students Christopher Duffy and Kirk French discovered the oldest pressurized
aqueduct of the New World at this people’s site of Palenque. These people’s ancient city of
Caracol supported twice the population of nearby modern Belize City. For the point, name these
ancient people of Mesoamerica who built the city of Chichen Itza.
ANSWER: The Mayans

27. Many Neolithic burial chambers known as “cromlech” can be found in this region’s Gower
Peninsula. Mercian king Offa the Great built a dyke delineating this country from its eastern
neighbor. Some historical kingdoms within this country include Gwynedd and Powys, and it was
conquered by Edward Longshanks of England. For the point, name this region with cities such as
Swansea and Cardiff, a constituent country of the United Kingdom.
ANSWER: Wales [Accept Cymru; prompt on the “United Kingdom”]
28. One of these places dedicated to Our Lady of Atocha has both a virtual shrine and a forest of
remembrance for a 2004 terrorist attack that occurred there. The statue Kindertransport, which
depicts Jewish children fleeing the Nazis, can be found in one of these locations named after the
nearby Friedrichstraße in Berlin. The busiest one of these in Europe, called Gare (pr. GAHR) du
Nord, is the terminus of the London Eurostar that uses the Chunnel. For the point, name these
places where one can catch an Amtrak in the US.
ANSWER: Train Station [Accept Depot]

29. This nation is known for a variety of cheese-filled bread named “Khachapuri” that originates
from the Imereti region. This country has nominal control over the breakaway regions of
Abkhazia and South Ossetia, with the latter’s declaration of independence nearly leading to a
full-scale war between this nation and its northern neighbor Russia. For the point, name this
Caucasus nation possibly named after a dragon-slaying saint with capital at Tbilisi.
ANSWER: Republic of Georgia

30. The exchange of the town of Kaf between this nation and an eastern neighbor led to a
geographical anomaly known as Winston’s Hiccup. The Red Sea Astrarium was a joint product
by the US and this nation to build a theme park and vacation spot in this nation’s resort town of
Aqaba. As a result of the Six Days’ War, a monarch of this nation relinquished control of the
West Bank region to a western neighbor. For the point, name this Middle Eastern nation where
one can find the ruins of Petra and its capital, Amman.
ANSWER: Jordan


Extra
31. Members of the LDS Church invented a clone of this game set in the land of Zarahemla. An
expansion to this game introduces a “Harbormaster” variant, which awards you two points for
having a settlement adjacent to a port. The most common roll in this game, seven, leads to the
movement of the Robber token, allowing the player to block an opponent’s resource hexagon
and steal resources from their hand. For the point, name this German board game with spinoffs
like Seafarers and Cities & Knights in which players settle the namesake island to accumulate
Victory Points.
ANSWER: Settlers of Catan
