US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                   Round 3



                                             Round 3
Bee Round 3

(1) Jacob Roggeveen was the first European to meet these people. A large dwarf planet in the Kuiper Belt
is named after these people’s creator god, Makemake [mah-kay-mah-kay]. Jared Diamond wrote about
environmental collapse dooming these people, who are believed to have written the Rongorongo glyphs.
Stone sculptures of humans created by these people are known as moai. For the point, name these people
who inhabit an island off the coast of Chile.
ANSWER: Easter Islanders (accept Rapa Nui)

(2) This capital city is divided into subdivisions called upazilas. Thousands of tons of sewage and waste
from this city flood the Buriganga River. The prevalence of bicycle transportation in this city has led it
to be named the Rickshaw Capital of the World. In 2013, this city’s Savar district suffered when over
1,000 people were killed in the collapse of an eight-story textile factory. For the point, name this capital
of Bangladesh.
ANSWER: Dhaka

(3) The history of a structure in this country named for Mehmed Pasha Sokolović makes up much of the
novel The Bridge on the Drina. This country’s portion of the Sava River contains a power plant named
after Nikola Tesla. This predominantly Eastern Orthodox country was split in 2008 after Kosovo declared
independence. For the point, name this Balkan country that is home to Belgrade.
ANSWER: Serbia

(4) The remains of two shield volcanoes make up this island’s Banks Peninsula. Shigeru Ban designed the
Cardboard Cathedral on this island after a 2011 earthquake in one of its major cities. The Canterbury
Plains are found on this island, as is the Waitaki River. Christchurch is the main city of this island, which
is named Te Waipounamu in Maori. For the point, name this island of New Zealand found below the Cook
Strait.
ANSWER: South Island (of New Zealand) (accept Te Waipounamu before mentioned)

(5) A memorial in this city includes an inscribed quote beginning “until justice rolls down like waters”
near a black granite fountain in the shape of an inverted cone. That memorial, designed by Maya Lin,
commemorates 41 fallen civil rights activists in this city a block south of the Dexter Avenue Baptist
Church, where Martin Luther King, Jr. served as pastor and led a march here from Selma. Those
landmarks are two blocks west of the state capitol building in, For the point, what Alabama capital city?
ANSWER: Montgomery




                                                   Page 1
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                 Round 3


(6) Along the shores of this body of water, a statue of Annie Besant can be found in an urban park
on Marina Beach. That beach is on the Coromandel Coast between this body of water and the Eastern
Ghats. The “Paris of the East,” Pondicherry, lies on this body of water, which contains the Andaman
Islands and whose coastal cities include Madras, now named Chennai. For the point, name this body of
water, a bay named for the primary ethnic group of Bangladesh.
ANSWER: Bay of Bengal

(7) Over 10 percent of the world’s bird species can be found in this country’s Madidi National Park.
Hundreds of people die annually while traveling on this country’s Yungas Road. This country is home
to the largest salt flat in the world, Salar de Uyuni. From 1550 to 1600, over half of the world’s silver
was mined in this country’s city of Potosi. Evo Morales leads, For the point, what country named after a
South American freedom fighter?
ANSWER: Plurinational State of Bolivia

(8) Many stores belonging to the Central Group are found in this city’s CentralWorld shopping complex.
Tony Jaa is an expert in a martial art commonly practiced in this city’s Lumpini Stadium. Tributaries
known as khwae flow out of the river that this city lies on; that river is the Chao Phraya. Samut Prakan
is part of the metropolitan region of this city, whose palace is inhabited by King Vajiralongkorn. For the
point, name this capital city of Thailand.
ANSWER: Bangkok

(9) This body of water’s Banc du Geyser reef is a large source of guano. Shimaore [shi-more-ay] is the
main dialect spoken on an island in a region on this body of water divided into the islands of Grand-Terre
and Petite-Terre. Mayotte is found in this body of water, which is bounded to the east by a country
dominated where Malagasy is widely spoken and where lemurs are endemic. For the point, name this
channel that separates Madagascar from a Portuguese speaking African nation.
ANSWER: Mozambique Channel (channel not needed after mentioned)

(10) A 2010 cholera outbreak on this island was largely caused by the infectious waters of its Artibonite
River. The Gulf of Gonâve [go-nahv] is on the western shores of this island. Its two largest lakes, Lake
Enriquillo and Étang Saumâtre, lie on opposite sides of a national border. Ayiti was the name provided
to this island by the local Taı́no people, who Columbus met when he established a settlement here. A
2010 earthquake devastated, for the point, what Caribbean island shared by the Dominican Republic and
Haiti?
ANSWER: Hispaniola

(11) A sand dune-spit separates this body of water from the Curonian Lagoon. The Neman River flows
into this body of water, which is connected to the Little Belt and the Great Belt. The Kattegat is located
north of the western end of sea, where the Aland Islands can be found south of the Gulf of Bothnia.
Tallinn and Riga are capitals that lie along arms of, For the point, what sea whose namesake states include
Latvia and Lithuania?
ANSWER: Baltic Sea



                                                  Page 2
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                   Round 3


(12) A Filipino labor group founded on this island was known as the Vibora Luviminda. The whaling
industry was dominated in the 1800s by this island’s town of Lahaina. Tourists often undertake a scenic
drive on this island along the Road to Hana. Kanaha Beach is a popular location for windsurfing on this
island, which contains Honolua Bay. The second largest island of Hawaii is, for the point, what island
named after a Polynesian trickster god?
ANSWER: Maui

(13) The remains of the man who baptized Saul are thought to be held in this city’s House of Ananias.
Kaiser Wilhelm II dedicated a marble sarcophagus to this city’s Mausoleum of Saladin. The site on which
a basilica had been dedicated to John the Baptist was used to construct this city’s Ummayad Mosque. St.
Paul converted to Christianity while traveling to this city, whose Presidential Palace is currently inhabited
by the Alawite leader Bashar al-Assad. For the point, name this capital of Syria.
ANSWER: Damascus

(14) The Uppatasanti Pagoda towers over this country’s new capital, where 14-lane highways are typically
deserted. This country’s city of Mandalay lies on its Irrawaddy River, which empties into the Andaman
Sea. In the southwest coast of this country, the largely-Muslim Rohingya people have been persecuted by
a ruling junta. For the point, what country moved its capital from coastal Yangon to inland Naypyidaw
in 2005 and is found west of Thailand?
ANSWER: Republic of the Union of Myanmar (or Burma)

(15) During this lake’s lowest recorded size in 1963, some of its 10 major islands became peninsulas.
Bridger Bay is located on its largest island, which contains large pronghorn and bison populations. The
Bear, Jordan, and Weber rivers feed into this remnant of the prehistoric Lake Bonneville, which sustains
little more than brine shrimp. For the point, name this large saline lake located in Utah.
ANSWER: Great Salt Lake (do not accept or prompt on Salt Lake)

(16) Residents of this region’s largest city may ask for “Lorne sausage” in the “Patter,” a local dialect. At
Rubislaw Quarry, over 6 million tons of granite were mined in this region’s city of Aberdeen. Midlothian
is one of the council areas in this region, whose capital is south of the Firth of Forth. For the point, name
this constituent country of the UK whose cities include Glasgow and Edinburgh.
ANSWER: Scotland

(17) This city’s currency was issued in series depicting orchids, birds, ships, and currently portraits of
Yusof Ishak. Tekka is the local name for this city’s Little India district. An airline owned by Temasek
Holdings operates out of Changi Airport in this city, which lies on an island south of the Strait of
Johor. This city’s major university has a School of Public Policy named after Lee Kuan Yew. Mandarin
and Malay are widely spoken in, for the point, what city-state in Southeast Asia that was once part of
Malaysia?
ANSWER: Singapore




                                                   Page 3
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                 Round 3


(18) The summit of this mountain can be reached via the Machame and Marangu routes. Located near
the town of Moshi, this mountain was named after Kaiser Wilhelm in 1889 by the first European to reach
its summit, Hans Meyer. This volcano consists of three cones named Mawenzi, Shira, and Kibo, whose
highest point is called Uhuru in Swahili. For the point, name this tallest free-standing mountain in the
world, located in Tanzania.
ANSWER: Mount Kilimanjaro

(19) Engineering projects in the 1960s removed this river’s tidal bore, which was called a mascaret
[mask-ah-ray]. Jacques de Molay was burned to death on an island in this river in 1314. A city on
this river has a name translating to “the harbor” and was depicted in a painting that inspired the art
movement Impressionism. This river flows into the English Channel after passing under bridges like Pont
de Normandie. For the point, name this river that flows through Paris.
ANSWER: Seine River

(20) This city destroyed Paradise Valley and the Black Bottom neighborhood in the 1960s, causing many
of its blues musicians to leave for other cities. Berry Gordy founded a company that used the Hitsville
USA office in this city, where Smokey Robinson, Diana Ross, and others helped pioneer a pop-inspired
genre of soul. For the point, name this birthplace of Motown Records, whose name stems from this city’s
claim as “Motor Town” in Michigan.
ANSWER: Detroit

(21) This is the only country where the Wolof people are a majority ethnic group. Museums documenting
the slave trade can be visited on Gorée Island near this country’s capital. The French colonized this
country, whose independence movement included joining with French Sudan to form the short-lived Mali
Federation. This country, which surrounds the Gambia, has its capital on Cap-Vert, the westernmost
point of mainland Africa. For the point, name this African country with capital Dakar.
ANSWER: Senegal

(22) In 1970, this city had a population of just three people who worked for a plantation owner who
lived on nearby Isla Mujeres [moo-hair-ess]. The Avenue Kukulcan is a major street in this city, which is
located near the ruins of Tulum. The Riviera Maya is a district south of this city containing the Playa del
Carmen. Visits to Chichen Itza are commonly taken by inhabitants of this city’s resorts. For the point,
name this city in Quintana Roo, a popular Mexican tourist destination.
ANSWER: Cancún

(23) Ron Wilcox wrote a book about World War I Battles on this river, including the Siege of Kut-al-
Amara. In 2014, this river’s Mosul Dam was briefly captured by ISIS. This river joins a southern river
at the Shatt-al Arab; those two rivers which were central to agriculture in the Fertile Crescent of ancient
Mesopotamia. For the point, name this Middle Eastern river that eventually connects to the Euphrates
[you-fray-teez].
ANSWER: Tigris River




                                                  Page 4
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                   Round 3


(24) Ignatius Donnelly claimed that all civilization descended from the people of this location. In a 1627
work partly titled for this location, scientific knowledge is centralized in Salomon’s House; that work by
Francis Bacon is titled for the “New” version of this place. This land was introduced in dialogues by Plato
that claimed Athens defeated it, leading to its famous fate. For the point, name this legendary island that
supposedly sank into a namesake ocean.
ANSWER: Atlantis (accept Atlantis: The Antidiluvian World; accept the New Atlantis)

(25) The eastern half of this island is essentially split apart by the Peconic River, which becomes the
Great Peconic Bay. Cities on this island include Commack and, on its eastern tip, Montauk. This island
is divided into four counties: Suffolk, Nassau, Kings, and Queens, the latter two of which are home to
boroughs of New York City. For the point, name this largest island in the contiguous 48 states.
ANSWER: Long Island

(26) The Nisko Plan created several of these locations, including one so close to a city that it was locally
called “little Majdan.” Some examples of these locations in Silesia were known as Polenlager, and another
of these locations in modern Poland was named for the village of Monowitz. The entrance to one of these
locations was marked by a gate inscribed with the phrase “work sets you free.” Buchenwald and Auschwitz
are examples of, for the point, what locations where Jews were forcibly taken by Nazis?
ANSWER: Nazi concentration camps (accept Nazi extermination camps; accept Nazi internment
camps; do not accept Nazi prisoner of war camps)

(27) One of these ecosystems is centered around Lake Drummond in Virginia. Another of these ecosystems
in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, called the Pantanal, is named for the Portuguese for this type of
region. North Carolina and Virginia share the “Great Dismal” one of these regions, while cypress trees
are common in these regions in the Everglades. For the point, name these ecosystems of wetland forests.
ANSWER: swamps (accept wetlands before “Pantanal,” then prompt on wetlands until “wetland” is said)

(28) A residence in this city called Stornoway houses one of its country’s political figures. Rockcliffe Park
is an affluent neighborhood in this city, which is connected to Kingston by the Rideau Canal. Gatineau
forms a metropolitan area with this city, whose namesake river is a tributary of the St. Lawrence River.
The Senators play hockey in, For the point, what Ontario city where Parliament Hill is home to much of
the Canadian government?
ANSWER: Ottawa

(29) In 1992, this state responded to a 30-year-old coal fire raging underground by seizing the village
of Centralia. Suburbs of this state’s capital include Mechanicsburg, Steelton, and Hershey, the home
of a chocolate-themed amusement park. This state’s cities of Lancaster and York are separated by the
Susquehanna River, which passes through its capital before going south to Maryland. For the point, name
this US state whose capital is Harrisburg.
ANSWER: Pennsylvania




                                                   Page 5
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017              Round 3


(30) In this country, a scallop shell marks the Way of St. James to Santiago de Compostela. The Glory
Facade is under construction to match the Nativity and Passion facades in this country’s Sagrada Familia
basilica. The Court of the Lions is found in the Alhambra, an example of Moorish architecture in this
country’s city of Granada. For the point, name this country whose other cities include Barcelona and
Madrid.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Spain

Extra Question
Only read if moderator botches a question.
(31) Julio Cortazar partly titled and set one of his short stories on this body of water’s Solentiname
Islands. Cornelius Vanderbilt’s Accessory Transit Company linked this body of water to the Pacific
Ocean. People travelling to California during the Gold Rush often sailed up the San Juan River
and through this lake, which the Tipitapa River connects to Lake Managua. For the point, name
this Central American lake named for a country bordering Costa Rica.
ANSWER: Lake Nicaragua




                                                Page 6
