                               International Geography Bee: Round 1
Tournament                                                                                Room                                        Division
                                                                                                                    Round        1                V JV
 Moderator                                                          Scorer                                                           (circle 1)




Student names (include                                                                                                 Final
                       1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35
full name and school)                                                                                                  score




Total pts for reaching +8          15 points            14     13      12 pts      11 points        10 points         9 points           8 points
INSTRUCTIONS:
SCORING: For correct answers, place new running total in student’s row for the corresponding question. For -1’s (3 rd incorrect interrupt), place running
total and circle it. Cross out entire column if no score change. Make sure to place scores in the column for the correct question.
REACHING +8: Remove student from round. In “Final score” column, place student’s total score (refer to the bottom row for the question on which +8
was reached). Cross out remainder of student’s row.
END OF ROUND: In “Final score” column, place final score for students not reaching +8 (may be negative).
                             2018 International Geography Bee
                       US Varsity & Junior Varsity National Championships

                                                    Round 1
1. A tributary of this river named for the surrounding regions cut down by buffalo is Clearfield Creek, while
another one of its tributaries, the Chemung River, was connected by canal to Seneca Lake. Cities along the banks
of this river include Bloomsburg and a place where the Little League World Series is held annually, South
Williamsport. This river is impounded by Conowingo Dam just north of Havre de Grace, while upstream a
nuclear power plant was built on Three Mile Island. Passing through cities like Wilkes-Barre and Harrisburg, this
is, for the point, what river, the largest tributary of the Chesapeake Bay, that flows north-to-south across central
Pennsylvania?

ANSWER: Susquehanna River

2. This city’s main classical music ensemble is based in its Barbican Centre. Johann Peter Salomon arranged one
man’s tour of this city, in which he made over 4000 gulden in one night during a premiere. “The Miracle” and
“Drumroll” are part of a series of works named for this city which includes a work named for a sudden fortissimo
chord. This city’s King’s Theatre was the site of the premier of Andrew Lloyd Webber’s Phantom of the Opera.
“The Surprise” is one of Joseph Haydn’s symphonies named after, for the point, what city along the Thames?

ANSWER: London, England

3. Mammoth bones and wall paintings are among the findings made in this state’s Loltun Caves. A major industry
in this state revolves around the plant henequen. A hilly region in this state known as Puuc extends partly into its
southwestern neighbor Campeche [cam-PAY-chay]. Uxmal is a major site in this state, whose natural sinkholes
include the Sacred Cenote [say-NO-tay]. Mérida is the capital of this state, whose landmark of El Castillo served
as a temple to the god Kukulcan. Chichen Itza is found in, for the point, what state of Mexico located in the
northern portion of a namesake peninsula?

ANSWER: Free and Sovereign State of Yucatán (accept Estado Libre y Soberano de Yucatán)

4. German activist groups have proposed funding for a southern bypass around this region in order to prevent a
road from being built through it. Hills along this region that protect its inhabitants from grass fires are known as
kopjes. The collapse of an erupting volcano onto itself led to the formation of this region’s Ngorongoro Crater.
The name of this region comes from a word meaning “Endless Plains.” The Kenyan portion of this region is
called the Maasai Mara. For the point, name this region located mainly in Tanzania that is known for its rich
wildlife.

ANSWER: Serengeti




	  	  
5. When visiting this complex, Andreas Houckgeest was given the honor of chewing a piece of meat gnawed on
by its main inhabitant. A eunuch named Nguyen An was one of the chief architects of this venue, which, in 1644
was captured by a leader of the Shun Dynasty. Every year, the chief inhabitant of this location would announce
the lunar calendar at its Meridian Gate. Construction on this venue began after the Yongle Emperor moved his
capital from Nanjing to the city where it is located. For the point, name this palace complex in which Chinese
emperors lived for over 500 years, located in Beijing.

ANSWER: Forbidden City

6. In the 1980s, protestors around this state’s Cape Tribulation tried to stand in the way of bulldozers paving a
road to its city of Cooktown. Mount Beerwah is the tallest of this state’s Glass House Mountains. The
Quandamooka people are concentrated around this state’s Moreton Bay, while the 2018 Commonwealth Games
were hosted in its southern Gold Coast area. The Gulf of Carpentaria is northwest of this state that is directly
south of the Torres Strait, which separates its country from New Guinea. Nicknamed “the Sunshine State”, for the
point, name this state with capital at Brisbane.

ANSWER: Queensland

7. “Rich Gold” and “Smart Silver” are among the mascot figurines themed around this building’s damper sphere,
which is the largest on Earth. Ariel Moscovici’s Between Sky and Earth is found in this building, whose exterior
contains numerous depictions of the ruyi talisman. Eight sections each with eight floors were created for this
structure’s main building, since the number eight is lucky in its country. Before being surpassed in 2010 by the
Burj Khalifa, this building was the tallest in the world. For the point, name this skyscraper in Taiwan.

ANSWER: Taipei 101

8. The Turlington Building is the second-tallest building in this city, which contains its state’s oldest
predominantly African-American neighborhood of Frenchtown. This city’s namesake meridian marker can be
found in its Cascades Park. This city’s namesake hills are the source of St. Marks River. This city is the sole
incorporated municipality in Leon Country. Its Apalachee Parkway forms an intersection containing its State
Capitol building. Home to a university whose mascot is the Seminoles, for the point, name this capital city of
Florida.

ANSWER: Tallahassee, Florida

9. At age 87, Scott Lewis became the oldest man to climb this mountain, on which six statuettes were found
alongside a mummy that became named after it. Konstanty Jodko-Narkiewicz ascended this mountain using an
alternate route through a glacier that would be named for his home country of Poland. Nicknamed “the Stone
Sentinel,” this peak is the second tallest of the Seven Summits. Located in the province of Mendoza, this peak’s
campsites include one at Puente del Inca. For the point, name this mountain in the Andes, the highest in South
America?

ANSWER: Aconcagua

10. One proposed way of countering this phenomenon is through the creation of a dam along the Berg Strait. A
series of shipwrecks around the city of Muynak have been revealed due to this phenomenon, which at one point,
resulted in the transformation of Rebirth Island into a land bridge. New irrigation techniques along the Syr Darya
River are attempting to combat this phenomenon, which has had profound effects on several countries’ cotton
industries. For the point, name this drying up of a once large lake shared by Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan.

ANSWER: shrinking of the Aral Sea (prompt on partial answer)


	  	  
11. A popular dish in this country known as likahare is made from the stomach lining of local animals. A
sandstone plateau in this country is known as the Thaba Bosiu. The Caledon River flows through this country,
whose districts include Leribe and Mafeteng. Another country’s O.R. Tambo International Airport is linked to one
in this country named after its king Moshoeshoe. This nation shares the Sani Pass with a surrounding country’s
province of KwaZulu-Natal. With capital at Maseru, for the point, name this country inhabited by the Basotho
people that borders just one other country.

ANSWER: Lesotho

12. A song named for this location pokes fun at girls who eat frugally in private and splurge on expensive soybean
paste drinks in public. A Mitt Romney-themed parody of the most famous song named for this location features a
chorus calling out to “wealthy ladies”. The 10 Corso Como store in this location was used to film the music video
for “Gentleman.” A song named for this place was the first YouTube video to reach 1 billion views, and contains
a signature horse dance. For the point, name this district in Seoul that names a PSY single about its “Style.”

ANSWER: Gangnam District

13. John Wooster carved his initials into one of these objects that became known as “Hercules”. Hale Tharp
created a lodging using one of these objects from which he ran a cattle ranching business. The naturalist James
Wolverton named one of these after his commander during the Civil War. The Calaveras Grove and Giant Forest
are known for housing these plants, a particularly famous example of which is the General Sherman. John Muir of
the Sierra Club nicknamed these plants “Big Trees.” For the point, name this particularly large type of redwood
native to California.

ANSWER: Giant Sequoia trees (prompt on redwood, prompt on trees)

14. In this body of water, the Aracho mine is used to extract brown coal from its Toas Island. The capital of the
state of Zulia shares its name with this body of water. The large number of palafitos around this body of water
inspired Amerigo Vespucci’s name for the country in which it is located. Members of the genus Lemna occupy
over 100 million cubic meters of this body of water, which is fed by the Catatumbo River. Duckweed infestation
has been a major issue in this lake, whose basin provides its country with extensive petroleum reserves. For the
point, name this large lake in Venezuela.

ANSWER: Lake Maracaibo

15. The sea captain Pierre Dollabarat shipwrecked on a reef in this archipelago that now bears his name. The
Priolo is a bullfinch native to this archipelago, which is home to the Island of the Crow. This is the northernmost
of the four archipelagos that make up Macaronesia. A prominent lighthouse sticks out on the Formigas Bank of
this island chain that is home to its country’s highest point of Mount Pico. Ponta Delgada is the chief city on this
archipelago, the largest of whose nine islands is São Miguel. For the point, name this Portuguese island chain.

ANSWER: Autonomous Region of the Azores (Região Autónoma dos Açores)

16. An island in this body of water contains a fortress divided into four sections by three canals and is based on
the designs of Domenico Trezzini. The Inger and Tosna are tributaries of this river that the town of Shlisselburg is
found at the head of. The Hermitage Bridge passes over this river, which flows through a city containing the
Winter Palace. This river’s namesake bay can be found at the eastern end of the Gulf of Finland. For the point,
name this river that flows through St. Petersburg.

ANSWER: Neva


	  	  
17. A sign with a red depiction of the symbol for this line is displayed in the Atsimo-Andrefana region, which this
line passes through. A region between Ysterberg Mountain and the Wolkberg Mountains that is named for this
line can be found in the province of Limpopo. A globe-like monument signifies the passage of this line through
Alice Springs. At midday, viewers would never able to see the sun over their heads if they travelled south of this
line. For the point, name this line of latitude symbolized by a goat in the southern hemisphere.

ANSWER: Tropic of Capricorn

18. A waterfall in this country is one of three popular tourist sites that make up its Golden Circle. The Mist
Hardships were a period in this country caused by heightened activity along this country’s Craters of Laki. The
southernmost point of this country can be found on its island of Surtsey which arose in the 20th century from the
Atlantic Ocean. Hekla is a stratovolcano in this country, which is also home to Thingvellir National Park. For the
point, name this Nordic country with capital at Reykjavik.

ANSWER: Iceland

19. One island in this body of water was named after the Portuguese word for lightning due to the strong winds
surrounding it. Another of the islands in this body of water is home to the indigenous Bubi people. This body of
water containing Corisco and Bioko is home to the province of Annobón, which belongs to the only Spanish-
speaking country in Africa. The national capital Lomé [lo-MAY] lies on this gulf's Bight of Benin, while its Bight
of Biafra is home to the islands of São Tomé and Príncipe. For the point, name this gulf that includes the origin of
the latitude-longitude system, the mouth of the Niger River, and the capital of a namesake "Equatorial" nation.

ANSWER: Gulf of Guinea (prompt on Atlantic Ocean until "Gulf," accept Bight of Bonny or Bight of Biafra
until "Lomé")

20.The cowboy showman Cuba Crutchfield is buried in this city’s Lone Mountain Cemetery. The Sears-Ferris
house is a landmark residence in this city, which was inhabited by the inventor of the Ferris Wheel. Flooding in
this city has been frequent due to runoff from its Eagle Valley. This city, the westernmost independent city in the
United States, has unusually small downtown blocks that are now bypassed by US Highways 50 and 395. Silver
Saddle Ranch is located in this city, which, along with Virginia City and other nearby towns, grew rapidly after
the discovery of the Comstock Lode. Lying twenty-six miles south of Reno, for the point, name this Nevada state
capital.

ANSWER: Carson City, Nevada

21. Aldous Huxley described a lake in this country as “Como with additional embellishments of several immense
volcanoes.” The Howler Monkey inspired the name of the Usumacinta River in this country’s northwest. Lake
Atitlan is located in this country, which has experienced massive deforestation in its Petén Department. The
Quiché people make up 11% of the population of this country where bananas are responsible for over 7% of
exports. This country is southwest of Belize and west of Honduras. For the point, name this Central American
country.

ANSWER: Guatemala




	  	  
22. A 1952 study by Ernest Fawbush and Robert Miller is seen as the origin of the term for this region. A New
York Times article claims that activity in this region is concentrated “ in May and June, between 4 and 7 p.m” and
was based on a report by the U.S. Weather Bureau. This informal region between the Rocky Mountains and the
Appalachians includes Oklahoma and Kansas among its most affected states. The intensity of the central
phenomena associated with this region is measured on the Enhanced Fujita Scale. For the point, name this
American region where many namesake whirlwinds occur.

ANSWER: Tornado Alley

23. In 2011, Xenophyophores were discovered living in a portion of this location named for a Filipino sea
creature. Kevin Hand has attempted to apply studies in this location to research on the oceans of the moon
Europa. This body of water’s namesake archipelago is part of the IBM arc. Don Walsh was a crewmember on the
Trieste, which was the first manned vehicle to reach a certain point in this body of water. That point would later
be reached by the filmmaker James Cameron in 2012. Jacques Piccard was among the first to explore, for the
point, what body of water containing Challenger Deep?

ANSWER: Mariana(s) Trench (accept Challenger Deep before “Challenger” is mentioned; accept Sirena Deep
before “Filipino” is mentioned and prompt after, prompt on Pacific Ocean)

24. The Zumbro River flows through this state’s southeastern region, which forms part of the Driftless Area.
Kayaking along the Kabetogama Peninsula is a popular activity at a national park in this state named for a type of
fur trader. Chippewa National Forest and the Mesabi Iron Range both overlap this state’s Itasca County. The
aftermath of a tornado led to the creation of a hospital in this state's southern city of Rochester that US News and
World Report ranks as the best in the US. Voyageurs National Park and the Mayo Clinic are in, for the point,
what “Land of 10,000 Lakes” with capital at St. Paul?

ANSWER: Minnesota

25. A popular farm environment visited by tourists in this city is the Arche de la Nature. A stained glass with a
feminine depiction of Jesus can be found in this city’s cathedral dedicated to its patron Saint Julian. This city in
the Pays de la Loire region is the capital of the Sarthe department. It is home to a competition whose most recent
winning team used a 919 hybrid. That competition, along with ones in Indianapolis and Monaco is among the
Triple Crown of Motorsport. For the point, name this French city that hosts a 24-hour endurance car race.

ANSWER: Le Mans, France

26. In 2009, the Gezhouba Group won a contract to construct this river’s Zangmu Dam. A tributary of this river
that is crossed by the Dhola–Sadiya Bridge is the Lohit river. This river splits into two south of its tributary
known as the Teesta River. Guwahati is found on this river, around which deforestation has led to soil erosion in
the Assam plains. This river’s namesake delta is sometimes named for the Sundarbans. Beginning in Tibet, for the
point, name this trans-national river that empties into the Bay of Bengal.

ANSWER: Brahmaputra River

27. In 1868, a consul named Rutherford Alcock made a then record eight-hour climb of this mountain, which he
described in the book The Capital of the Tycoon. Until 1912, women were banned from climbing this mountain
that is the tallest of its country’s “Three Holy Mountains.” The novel Tower of Waves popularized the use of a
notorious forest next to this mountain as a suicide site. Found along the Izu Peninsula this mountain inspired the
logo of the company Atari. A number of Shinto shrines are found on, ftp, what Japanese mountain?

ANSWER: Mount Fuji


	  	  
28. This city’s Al-Rashid Mosque was the first mosque established in its country. Jasper Place has been combined
with this city, which is adjacent to Strathcona County. This city's light rail line will soon connect to North
America's largest shopping mall located on this city's western edge, while the eastern half includes Wayne
Gretzky Drive. This city co-names an urban “corridor” that it shares with its province’s city of Calgary. For the
point, name this Alberta city nicknamed “The Oil Capital of Canada.”

ANSWER: Edmonton, Alberta

29. Charles Tilston Bright received a knighthood for his work overseeing this project, which saw repairs
conducted by the crew of the Great Eastern. Wildman Whitehouse introduced a failed design for this project that
was overseen by Cyrus Field. Lord Kelvin invented the mirror galvanometer for this project, one of whose
endpoints was in Newfoundland. The 1858 completion of this project was celebrated with the passage of a
message from Queen Victoria to James Buchanan. For the point, name this project that allowed for electric
communication on either side of a certain ocean.

ANSWER: trans-Atlantic telegraph cable

30. In 2007, plans were made to build a “Climate Forest” in one of this country’s national parks to offset carbon
emissions from the Vatican. The Bükk Mountains are located in this country, where the Tihany Peninsula juts into
a body of water fed by the Zala River. This country’s Southern Great Plain region has its capital at Szeged
[SEGG-ed]. Lake Balaton is found in this country’s region of the Transdanubia. An attempt to rescue a dog led to
the discovery of a cave in this country named after St. Stephen. For the point, name this country with capital at
Budapest.

ANSWER: Hungary

31. Along with the Ray Mountains, a range of this name helps make up the Yukon-Tanana Uplands. The source
of the Salt River is located in a mountain range of this name containing a peak sacred to the Apache named Mount
Baldy. In addition to that mountain range in Arizona, this name is shared by a range whose subranges include the
Kinsman and Presidential Ranges and was home to a series of granite cliffs that resembled a human face known
as the Old Man of the Mountain. For the point, give this name of a mountain range in New Hampshire that is
named for a color.

ANSWER: White Mountains

32. Ridgway’s Hawk is native to this island, which is also home to the Pale Magnolia Tree. Lake Azuei can be
found on this island that is to the west of the Mona Passage. The Cordillera Central is a mountainous region on
this island whose highest point is Pico Duarte. Carrefour and Puerto Plata are among the major cities on this
island. Found southeast of the Bahamas, this island is divided between a French and a Spanish-speaking nation.
For the point, name this Caribbean island shared by the Dominican Republic and Haiti.

ANSWER: Hispaniola

33. A particularly desolate portion of this region is locally known as the “Land of Thirst.” In 2014, a UNESCO
correspondent found that sledgehammers were being used to destroy rock art in this region’s Acacus range. The
Tibesti Mountains are located in this region, whose namesake “pump theory” claims that significant changes in
biodiversity occurred during the Nubian Swell. This region forms the northern end of a transition zone whose
name translates to “coast.” The Sahel extends south of, for the point, what North African desert?

ANSWER: Sahara Desert



	  	  
34. A “Gold Bowl” was discovered during excavations at Teppe Hassanlu in this country’s Gadar River Valley.
NASA’s Aqua satellite confirmed that the hottest land surface on Earth is in this country’s Lut Desert. The
longest bridge in this country crosses its Lake Urmia. Fars and Alborz are among the 31 provinces of this country
that is home to the Zagros Mountains. The Strait of Hormuz is to the south of this country, whose cities include
Tabriz and Isfahan. For the point, name this country that John Bolton has advocated bombing to stop its nuclear
weapons program.

ANSWER: Iran


35. The lack of setbacks on this street’s Equitable Building contributed to a set of 1916 zoning resolutions in its
city. This street's predecessor, Bloomingdale Road, was to be removed under the Commissioner's Plan of 1811,
but its curvilinear route was maintained. This street’s Canyon of Heroes is a section named for its common use
during ticker-tape parades. This street begins at Bowling Green and passes through Herald Square and
Washington Heights before crossing into Westchester County from the Bronx. This oldest street running from
north to south in Manhattan was where Oklahoma! premiered. For the point, name this street associated with
theatrical productions.

ANSWER: Broadway

Extra Question (Only read if needed as a replacement)

In its south, this country’s city of Calabar is home to hundreds of butterfly species. The Berom people are one of
the major ethnic groups native to this country’s diverse Jos Plateau. This country’s native Efik have formed the
Epke secret society in countries they have migrated to. After Egypt, this country has the most Facebook users of
any African country. The state of Rivers in this country has its capital at Port Harcourt. The naira is the currency
of this country that is home to the largest city in Africa. For the point, name this African nation home to the cities
of Lagos and Abuja.

ANSWER: Nigeria




	  	  
