US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                   Round 1



                                             Round 1
Bee Round 1

(1) An annual 1,500-step stair challenge takes place in this city’s “Tower Eye.” This city’s Royal Botanic
Gardens and Port Jackson are overlooked by a bridge dubbed “The Coathanger.” The Manly and Bondi
Beaches serve this city, where Jorn Utzon designed a building whose roof invokes a series of sails. For
the point, name this capital of New South Wales and site of a famous opera house, the most populous
Australian city.
ANSWER: Sydney

(2) The Cimbri were a tribe thought to have been from this peninsula, inspiring an alternate name. This
peninsula’s most populous city, nicknamed the “City of Smiles,” is Aarhus. Funen is found between this
peninsula and the island of Zealand. A World War I battle fought off this peninsula saw the German
navy defeated by the forces of John Jellicoe. For the point, name this peninsula shared by Germany and
Denmark.
ANSWER: Jutland

(3) The second most common route to this peak’s summit is the Polish Glacier route. After seven failed
attempts, Edward FitzGerald became the first man to reach this mountain’s summit. Nicknamed the
“Mountain of Death,” this peak is found in the province of Mendoza. The subduction of the Nazca plate
formed this mountain, which is one of the seven summits. For the point, name this peak in the Andes, the
tallest in South America.
ANSWER: Aconcagua

(4) Immigrants from this country to Brazil introduced sfiha meat pies to South America. The Baalbeck
International Festival is celebrated in this country, where the Phoenicians set up a trading post at its city
of Tyre. Maronites make up over 20 percent of this country, where a Green Line in the capital divides
Christian and Muslim communities. For the point, name this Middle Eastern country with capital at
Beirut.
ANSWER: Lebanon

(5) This state’s Pottsville Escarpment is the western boundary of its Pennyroyal Plateau. The
southwesternmost region of this state was purchased from the Chickasaw tribe by Andrew Jackson and
includes the city of Paducah. The longest cave system on Earth is found in this state’s Mammoth Cave
National Park. Many of this states major cities, including Lexington, are in its northern Bluegrass Region.
For the point, name this state containing the University of Louisville.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Kentucky




                                                   Page 1
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                 Round 1


(6) This city’s Georgian Quarter is home to its fashionable Merrion Square. An area of this city filled
with tech companies is nicknamed Silicon Docks, near North Wall on the north banks of a river that flows
under bridges named for Samuel Beckett and Sean O’Casey. Glendalough is part of the same diocese as
this city, which is served by a cathedral named for its country’s patron saint, Saint Patrick. The River
Liffey flows through, For the point, what capital city of Ireland?
ANSWER: Dublin

(7) This city is home to the Hector Pieterson Museum and the headquarters of the mobile telephone
company Vodacom. Don Mattera wrote about his life among gangs in this country’s suburb of Sophiatown.
This city, found in the province of Gauteng, contains a campus of the University of Witwatersrand. Miners
lived in this city’s Soweto township. For the point, name this city whose population, roughly double that
of Cape Town, makes it the most populous city in South Africa.
ANSWER: Johannesburg

(8) A small number of these locations feature monuments dedicated to Radhabinod Pal, who controversially
ruled that people mentioned in a Book of Souls at one of these locations were not guilty of war crimes.
One of these locations in Mie Prefecture is torn down and rebuilt every twenty years; that structure in Ise
[EE-say] includes two large torii [torr-ee] gates. Hachiman and Amaterasu are among the kami worshiped
at, for the point, what religious structures in Japan?
ANSWER: Shinto shrines (accept jinja; accept shinsha; accept place of the gods; prompt on partial
answer; prompt on descriptive answers that don’t use the terms “Shinto” and some equivalent of shrine)

(9) A British ship ran aground on an atoll in this body of water, causing that atoll to be named
Macclesfield Bank. The Dragon Hole, the world’s deepest sinkhole, is found in this body’s Paracel Islands.
A 2016 court case focused on claims to the “nine-dash line” in this sea, including ownership rights of its
Spratly Islands near the Philippines. For the point, name this sea that the Taiwan Strait connects to a
similarly named sea to its east, both of which are named for an Asian country.
ANSWER: South China Sea

(10) The “high country” of this location contains the Tuolumne [too-ALL-um-nee] Meadows. The
controversial O’Shaughnessy Dam was constructed in this location’s Hetch Hetchy Valley. John Muir
successfully lobbied Congress to establish this national park in 1890. Ansel Adams’ photography, including
The Face of Half Dome and El Capitan highlighted the beauty of, For the point, what national park
located in Eastern California?
ANSWER: Yosemite National Park

(11) A hypothesis about the origin of these people notes how their word for the number three is “trin.” A
famous jazz guitarist who played without 2 fingers, Django Reinhardt, was a member of this ethnic group.
In France, these people are known as manouches, and they refer to non-members as gadjo. A blue/green
background with a red spoked wheel was adopted as the flag of these people in 1971. Thought to have
originated in India, for the point, name these nomadic people who are often derisively called gypsies.
ANSWER: Romani people (accept gypsies before it is read)



                                                  Page 2
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                  Round 1


(12) A 2009 controversy developed after a geothermal mining company operating near a popular geyser
in this desert accidentally created a 60-meter fumarole. The Very Large Telescope is found in this desert,
which is home to the La Silla Observatory. The longest river in this desert is the Loa, which flows through
Antofagasta. Salares are the term for salt lakes found in this desert, which is bordered to the east by the
Andes. For the point, name this dry South American desert that takes up much of northern Chile.
ANSWER: Atacama Desert

(13) The source of this river contains a waterfall with the greatest flow rate in the world; those Boyoma
Falls inspired one name for the city of Kisangani. Plans are underway to create a third Inga Dam along
this river, one of whose sources is the Lualaba. This river’s Malebo Pool separates two capital cities. This
deepest river in the world is found north of Kinshasa. For the point, name this African river that was once
named the Zaire.
ANSWER: Congo River

(14) In 1984, a ship named the Jupiter crashed into this structure, several years after this structure was
sold, torn down, and rebuilt in Lake Havasu City, Arizona. A church named after St. Magnus the Martyr
marks one end of this structure, while the district of Southwark is on the other end. The refrain “My fair
lady” ends every quatrain of a nursery rhyme that claims that this structure is “falling down.” The River
Thames is crossed by, For the point, what bridge in the English capital city?
ANSWER: London Bridge (do not accept Tower Bridge)

(15) An extensive colonial transportation project built on this island in the nineteenth century was the
Great Post Road. The Candi Cetho route is the most technically demanding path to the summit of this
island’s Mount Lawu. Various folktales attempt to explain the drying of this island’s Lake Bandung. Over
500 statues of Buddha are found on this island’s Borobudur temple. The colonial Netherlands exported
coffee primarily from, for the point, what most populous Indonesian island?
ANSWER: Java

(16) In this city, RESO is an “Underground City” used daily by half a million residents that connects the
Bell Centre and the Place Bonaventure. The model community Habitat 67 served the 1967 World’s Fair
in this city, which also built the Stade Olympique for the 1976 Summer Olympics. This city surrounds a
namesake hill on an island at the confluence of the Ottawa and St. Lawrence Rivers. For the point, name
this second-most populous city in Canada, the largest city in Quebec.
ANSWER: Montreal

(17) This city, the largest on Absecon Island, suffered the closures of the Revel resort in 2014 and Trump
Taj Mahal in 2016. This city, just up the coast from Ventnor City, has also suffered a downswing in its
tourism industry since 2012, when Hurricane Sandy did surprisingly minor physical damage to its historic
boardwalk. For the point, name this resort city, the gambling capital of New Jersey.
ANSWER: Atlantic City




                                                  Page 3
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                 Round 1


(18) An example of this effect in the Olympic Peninsula has led a Washington city to be nicknamed Sunny
Sequim. The Guajira Peninsula experiences this phenomenon due to the nearby Sierra Nevada de Santa
Marta, resulting in roughly eight months of aridity per year. For the point, name this effect that occurs
on the leeward side of a mountain range in which mountains block off areas from receiving precipitation.
ANSWER: rain shadow effect (prompt on descriptive answers that don’t use the phrase “rain shadow”)

(19) One city in this nation is home to the Shrine of Hazrat Ali, a mosque with twin blue domes. This
country lies northwest of the Durand Line, and this country includes the Wakhan Corridor, connecting
it to China. This country’s Balkh province contains the city of Mazar-e-Sharif, and its Parwan province
includes its largest US military base, Bagram Airfield. Pashto is a major language in, For the point, what
country bordering Pakistan with capital at Kabul?
ANSWER: Afghanistan

(20) A geology student bombed this annual event in 1980. The roller coaster Olympia Looping made its
debut at this event in 1989. This event, which takes place annually at Theresienwiese [tair-AZE-ee-en-
VEE-zeh], offered transportation to people from the Sudetenland in 1938. An 85-decibel limit is imposed
on music at this event until 6 PM. Sauerkraut is commonly sold at this event, which is thought to be
protected by the Bavaria statue. For the point, name this Munich beer festival that ends in the title
month.
ANSWER: Oktoberfest

(21) A former capital of this nation located along the Chiquito River is the city of León. The majority of
the Mosquito Coast runs along the east of this country. In this country, the Tipitapa River joins the two
largest freshwater lakes in Central America, one named after this country and the other named after its
capital. For the point, name this Central American nation with capital at Managua.
ANSWER: Nicaragua

(22) Tourists can view this city’s skyline from its Reunion Tower. The Bank of America Plaza is the
tallest building in this city, whose football team plays in AT&T Stadium. The Sixth Floor Museum
commemorates an event that occurred in this city that wounded John Connally; that 1963 event occurred
in this city’s Dealey Plaza and resulted in the death of John F. Kennedy. For the point, name this neighbor
of Fort Worth, the third largest in Texas.
ANSWER: Dallas, Texas

(23) In 1979 in this city, the Ikhwan seized a religious site and proclaimed that the Mahdi was among
them. The hills of al-Safa and al-Marwa are now located in that religious building in this city, where
visitors perform tawaf by walking seven times around the Kaaba, a sacred black building in the Masjid
al-Haram. For the point, name this Saudi Arabian city where Muhammad was born, the holiest city in
Islam.
ANSWER: Mecca




                                                  Page 4
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                  Round 1


(24) In this city, a dish of shrimp baked in garlicky bread crumbs was invented by the DeJonghe [de-zhon]
brothers, who came to this city for an 1893 festival. Stands in this city sell Maxwell Street Polishes
[po-lishes] as well as an item topped with sport peppers, celery salt, a pickle spear, tomato, neon green
pickle relish, onion, and mustard - but not ketchup, unlike other hot dogs. For the point, name this
Midwestern city where deep dish pizza is sold at Lou Malnati’s, as you should discover at dinner tonight.
ANSWER: Chicago

(25) Tourists to this country can visit the Masikryong Ski Resort on Taehwa Peak. The river that forms
this country’s northern border is crossed by a “friendship bridge” from Dandong and rises in Heaven Lake
on Mt. Paektu. The shared Kaesong Industrial Complex is just north of this country’s Joint Security
Area, which includes Panmunjom. The Yalu River and a DMZ along the 38th Parallel form the borders
of, For the point, what country with capital Pyongyang?
ANSWER: North Korea (or Democratic People’s Republic of Korea or DPRK; prompt on Korea;
do not accept or prompt on Republic of Korea or South Korea)

(26) The headstream of this body of water is nicknamed the “Tearful River.” A poem titled “Swimming”
commemorates the 1954 floods of this river, which begins in the Tanggula Mountains and flows past its
country’s largest freshwater lake, Lake Poyang. The world’s largest producer of hydroelectric power is this
river’s Three Gorges Dam, built in the province of Hubei. For the point, name this longest river in China.
ANSWER: Yangtze River

(27) One representative of this organization had earlier founded the Civic Platform. This organization
acknowledges environmental efforts with its annual Green Capital Award and examines human rights and
governmental policies as part of its Copenhagen criteria, determining whether it will invite new members.
This organization, which was awarded the Nobel Prize in 2012, was created in 1993 by a treaty signed in
the city of Maastricht. Over 500 million people live in, For the point, what international organization that
one nation plans to leave after the Brexit referendum?
ANSWER: European Union

(28) A city of this name in southwest Missouri claims to be the birthplace of Route 66, as the road was
named there in 1926. The first American town of this name lies on the Connecticut River and was home
to an armory almost captured during Shays’ Rebellion. Five towns of this name exist in Wisconsin, and
half of the United States have a town of this name. For the point, name this incredibly common place
name, also shared by a city home to the tomb and Presidential library of Abraham Lincoln, the capital of
Illinois.
ANSWER: Springfield




                                                  Page 5
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                  Round 1


(29) It costs 50 kroner to be admitted onto one of these structures that was built in 1914 in Tivoli. One of
these in Jackson, New Jersey that reaches 456 feet in height is known as Kingda Ka. Intamin is a designer
of these structures, including Millennium Force at Cedar Point in Ohio. The first of these entities was
opened in 1884 in Coney Island. The Centrifugal Railway names several early examples of these objects
to feature a loop. For the point, name these thrill rides that involve a train of cars on a wooden or steel
track.
ANSWER: roller coasters (prompt on thrill rides or similar, more generic terms; accept wooden roller
coaster until “456 feet” is read)

(30) In this nation, the Gilf Kebir Plateau lies in the Western Desert. This nation contains the Qattara
Depression and the Karnak Temple complex near its city of Luxor. The Aswan High Dam spans one river
in this country, on whose banks lies Alexandria. The Sinai Peninsula and Nile River delta lie in, For the
point, what country, home to the Great Pyramid of Giza near its capital, Cairo?
ANSWER: Egypt

Extra Question
Only read if moderator botches a question.
(31) A park in this city includes a memorial for six cadets known as the Niños Héroes, who died in
defense of a castle at that parksite. The Quixote fountain and a National Museum of History are
also found at that park, whose name means “grasshopper hill” in Nahuatl. This city’s Chapultepec
Castle, a former residence of Emperor Maximilian, was seized by American forces in 1847. For the
point, name this North American capital city.
ANSWER: Mexico City




                                                  Page 6
