International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                    Round 2



                                            Round 2
Regulation Questions

(1) The Psychro Cave is a mythical birthplace on this island also home to Lake Kournas and Mount Ida.
Chania and Heraklion are cities on this island separated from the mainland by the Kythira Strait. British
archaeologist Arthur Evans excavated an ancient palace containing a fresco of a man leaping over a bull
on this island south of the Peloponnesus. The Minoan palace of Knossos was built on, for the point, what
largest Greek island?
ANSWER: Crete

(2) In this city, the restaurant Brennan’s created a dish of bananas served in butter and brown sugar now
known as Bananas Foster. Beignets [ben-YAYZ], fried dough pastries covered with sugar, were popularized
by this city’s Cafe du Monde. Popular dishes in this city include muffuletta sandwiches, po’ boys, and
gumbo. This city’s French Quarter contains Bourbon Street. For the point, name this most populous city
in Louisiana.
ANSWER: New Orleans

(3) This country’s Chuquicamata [Chuh-Quick-a-mah-tuh] is the world’s largest open-pit copper mine by
volume. This country controls the Juan Fernandez Islands, which includes Robinson Crusoe Island, while
its Atacama Desert sparked the War of the Pacific. Easter Island is controlled by, for the point, what
country with its capital at Santiago?
ANSWER: Republic of Chile

(4) This city’s namesake creek was once a major pearling center, but was dredged in the 1960s to develop
its port infrastructure. One line of this city’s driverless Metro runs alongside Sheikh Zayed Road. The
Palm Jumeirah and The World are artificial island groups located in the Persian Gulf in this city. For the
point, the Burj Khalifa is in what most populous city of the United Arab Emirates?
ANSWER: Dubai (or Dubay)

(5) A 36-course meal known as wazwan is native to this region. This region’s city of Muzaffarabad lies
at the junction of the Neelum and Jhelum [Jay-lum] Rivers. Srinagar [Shree-nuh-gur] is the capital of an
Indian state in this region west of the disputed territory of Aksai Chin. The Siachen Glacier is located
near the Line of Control in, for the point, what region claimed by both Pakistan and India?
ANSWER: Kashmir (accept Jammu and Kashmir; accept Azad Kashmir; prompt on Pakistan before
it is read; prompt on India before it is read)

(6) According to local legend, the devil once helped construct a bridge in this mountain range’s Schöllenen
Gorge. Lake Lucerne is in this mountain range crossed by the Brenner Pass and St. Bernard Pass. Famous
skiing destinations in this mountain range include Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn. For the point, name
this mountain range that covers much of Austria and Switzerland.
ANSWER: The Alps (accept Alpi or Alpen)



                                                  Page 1
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                  Round 2


(7) This country and Pakistan are building a namesake “Economic Corridor” that includes the
reconstruction of the Karakoram Highway. This country is building railroads in East Africa and Southeast
Asia as part of its One Belt, One Road initiative. Shenzhen [SHEN-JEN] and Xiamen [SHEAH-MEN]
were some of the first Special Economic Zones in this country. For the point, the Yuan [Yu-an] is the
currency of what country with its capital at Beijing?
ANSWER: People’s Republic of China (but do NOT accept or prompt on Republic of China)

(8) This region’s Kluane [kloo AH nee] National Park is home to the second-highest peak in North
America, while its city of Dawson was founded during a gold rush on the Klondike River. This territory’s
eastern border is formed by the Mackenzie River, while its share of the St. Elias Mountains includes
Mount Logan. For the point, name this westernmost Canadian territory with its capital at Whitehorse.
ANSWER: Yukon Territory (accept the Yukon)

(9) The Aubrey Holes are 56 chalk pits discovered near this location. Historians believe sarsens were
transported up the River Avon north of Salisbury to build this landmark, a former site for Druidic
religious ceremonies. This site may have been designed to align with the sun on the summer solstice. For
the point, name this prehistoric site in England, a large circle of stacked megaliths.
ANSWER: Stonehenge

(10) One island in this country is the namesake of dracaena cinnabari, a type of dragon tree. The
Wadi Hadhramaut [Had-ruh-maut] is in the east of this country that has no permanent rivers. Socotra
is an island belonging to this country that contains the southwest portion of the Empty Quarter. The
Bab-el-Mandeb lies between Djibouti and, for the point, what country with cities Aden and Sanaa?
ANSWER: Republic of Yemen

(11) Ridges of rock formed by two of these objects are called arêtes. These objects cause erosion through
abrasion and plucking, forming U-shaped rather than V-shaped valleys. Kettles are small, shallow lakes
formed from the retreat of these objects, which form drumlins and moraines by depositing till. Calving is
the process by which icebergs fall into the sea from, for the point, what large, moving masses of ice?
ANSWER: Glaciers

(12) In England, the Premier League traditionally hosts a full slate of matches on the day after this
holiday. Panettone [pan-uh-TOE-nay] is an Italian sweetbread normally served during this holiday, which
Brits often celebrate with mince pies and plum pudding. Street markets named for this holiday are
popular in Germany and Austria. Yule logs are often burnt during, for the point, what holiday at the end
of Advent?
ANSWER: Christmas (prompt on Advent before mention)




                                                 Page 2
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                 Round 2


(13) This city’s Seven Sisters are a group of skyscrapers built between 1947 to 1953. An architect who
designed a cathedral with several colorful onion domes for this city was supposedly blinded so that he
would be unable to reproduce his feat. That cathedral in this city overlooks Lenin’s Mausoleum in the
middle of the Red Square. For the point, name this capital of Russia.
ANSWER: Moscow (accept Moskva)

(14) This lake’s North and South Manitou Islands were said to have been formed from two drowned
bear cubs. The SS Badger takes people from Ludington to Manitowoc on this lake. The Boardman River
flows into this lake’s Grand Traverse Bay. The Door Peninsula creates Green Bay in this lake, which
is connected to Lake Huron by the Straits of Mackinac [MACK-in-naw]. For the point, Milwaukee and
Chicago are cities on what Great Lake?
ANSWER: Lake Michigan

(15) This city’s outskirts include Royal National Park and Blue Mountains National Park, while its Port
Jackson is crossed by a bridge known as “The Coathanger.” Manly Beach is served by this city’s Circular
Quay [KEY], while Bondi [BOND-EYE] Beach is southeast of this city. For the point, a building composed
of white, sail-like shells was designed by Jorn Utzon for what most populous city in Australia?
ANSWER: Sydney

(16) One military campaign in this region began with an airborne assault on the Pegasus Bridge. This
region’s Cotentin Peninsula was the site of an attempt to capture its port of Cherbourg [Share BORG].
This region’s city of Le Havre [Le-AV-ruh] is at the mouth of the Seine River, northeast of Juno and
Sword Beach. For the point, name this region of France which was invaded by the US and UK on D-Day.
ANSWER: Normandy

(17) Wildlife in this desert thrive on water pockets called gueltas in places like the Ennedi Plateau.
Rock-art sites can be found in this desert’s Acacus Mountains, while its Emi Koussi shield volcano is the
highest point of the Tibesti Mountains. The Atlas Mountains lie north of, for the point, what large North
African desert?
ANSWER: Sahara Desert

(18) Mount Sidley, this place’s highest volcano, is located in its Marie Byrd Land. This region’s highest
point is in the Sentinel Range of the Ellsworth Mountains, and claimed solely by Chile. Vinson Massif is
on this continent, whose Mount Erebus is on the Ross Ice Shelf. For the point, Amundsen-Scott South
Pole Station is on what continent?
ANSWER: Antarctica (accept Marie Byrd Land before mentioned)




                                                 Page 3
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                    Round 2


(19) This country has historically provided doctors to Venezuela in exchange for oil imports. In 2013,
this country lifted its ban on automobile imports, a policy that made it a center for classic car culture. A
drop in sugar prices and the collapse of the USSR led to a 1990s famine in this country that lies across
the Straits of Florida from Miami. The US continues to maintain an embargo against, for the point, what
country with its capital at Havana?
ANSWER: Republic of Cuba

(20) Bioluminescent Bay is a popular attraction in Vieques [vee-AY-kayz], an island off the coast of this
larger island. This island’s city of Mayaguez sits on the Mona Passage, while its cities of Bayamon and
Ponce [Pown-SAY] were heavily damaged by Hurricane Maria. The Arecibo Observatory and El Yunque
[Yoon-KAY] Rainforest are on this island. For the point, name this US commonwealth with its capital at
San Juan.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Puerto Rico

(21) This country was home to a nuclear test site known as “The Polygon” at Semipalatinsk [sem i puh
LAH tinsk]. In this country, the Syr Darya [sear DAR yah] River flows past the largest spaceport in the
world, the Baikonur [bai koh NOOR] Cosmodrome. The northern half of the Aral Sea is in this country
that moved its capital from Almaty to Astana in 1997. For the point, name this large Central Asian
country.
ANSWER: Republic of Kazakhstan

(22) This country’s Vice President lived in its Coconut Palace from 2010 to 2016. The Leyte [Lay-Tay]
Gulf, the site of the largest naval battle in history is in this country. The volcano Mount Apo is the
highest point of this country, while a 0.5 [One-half] degree drop in global temperatures was caused by a
1991 eruption of its Mount Pinatubo. The islands of Mindanao and Luzon belong to, for the point, what
country with its capital at Manila?
ANSWER: Republic of the Philippines

(23) A chocolate sponge cake named after a region in this country is required to include kirsch, a spirit
made from cherries. One sausage from this country is typically consumed with Born mustard and made
on a grill cooled by beer. Currywurst is a popular street food in this country, where Thuringian sausage
is produced. For the point, name this country that inspired the Frankfurter, the Hamburger, and the
Berliner doughnut.
ANSWER: Federal Republic of Germany (or Deutschland)

(24) The proposed Great Inga Dam on this river would surpass the Three Gorges Dam as the largest in
the world. The Lualaba, this river’s largest headwater by volume, forms this river at the Boyoma Falls
near Kisangani and receives water from Lake Mweru and Lake Tanganyika. This river’s Malebo Pool
separates the capital cities of Brazzaville and Kinshasa. For the point, name this second-longest river in
Africa.
ANSWER: Congo River




                                                  Page 4
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                    Round 2


(25) Issues in a 2014 election in this country included nuclear submarines in the Faslane Bay and the
fate of the offshore Brent oil rig. This country recently required government maps to accurately represent
the location of the Shetland Islands. The majority of this country voted to remain in the E.U. in 2016,
leading to discussion of a second independence referendum after one failed in 2014. For the point, name
this country of the United Kingdom with its capital at Edinburgh [Edinborough].
ANSWER: Scotland (prompt on United Kingdom before “Shetland”)

(26) The Rongphu Monastery is at the base of this geographical feature, whose eastern side is known as
the Kangshung Face. “The Balcony” is a point on the South Col route to Lhotse and this mountain, whose
Western Cwm [Koom] lies past the Khumbu Icefall. For the point, name this mountain first summitted by
Tenzing Norgay and Edmund Hillary, the world’s highest point of elevation.
ANSWER: Mount Everest (accept Sagarmatha or Chomolungma)

(27) This state’s Elizabeth Islands form the southern boundary of Buzzards Bay. Young girls worked in
textile mills along the Merrimack River in this state’s city of Lowell. Marine scientists perform research
at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in this state, where a type of sign language developed
on Martha’s Vineyard. For the point, name this New England state where the Charles River separates
Cambridge from Boston.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Massachusetts

(28) The MFDC is a separatist group in this country’s southern Casamance region. The House of Slaves
is a museum on this country’s Gorée Island, which, along with Saint-Louis, was a major center of the
French slave trade in this country. This country’s Cap-Vert peninsula contains the westernmost point of
continental Africa, as well as its capital of Dakar. For the point, name this country that almost completely
surrounds the Gambia.
ANSWER: Republic of Senegal

(29) Isabela and Fernandina are still-expanding volcanic islands in this region. Puerto Ayora on Santa
Cruz is the most populous city in this island group, while its capital of Puerto Baquerizo Moreno is on
San Cristobal. The marine iguana, flightless cormorant, and the world’s largest species of tortoise are
native to this island group. For the point, name this Ecuadorian island group studied by Charles Darwin.
ANSWER: Galapagos Islands (or Archipielago de Colon)

(30) Porto Santo is an island belonging to this country in a territory with capital Funchal. The Guadiana
River empties into the Gulf of Cadiz in this country, whose Douro River valley is the home of Port wine.
Cape St. Vincent, the southwesternmost point of mainland Europe, is in the Algarve Region of this
country. For the point, the Tagus River flows through Lisbon, the capital of what country?
ANSWER: Portugal (or Portuguese Republic)




                                                  Page 5
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                   Round 2


Tiebreaker

(1) This language is spoken at home by 83% of the population of Madawaska, Maine. Tay Boi was a
version of this language spoken in Vietnam, while an extant Creole based on this language has official
status in Haiti. This language is the primary language of the Seychelles, the city of Geneva, and Wallonia,
the southern region of Belgium. For the point, name this tongue, the official language in Kinshasa,
Montreal, and Paris.
ANSWER: French (accept Français)




                                                  Page 6
