International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                     Round 1



                                             Round 1
Regulation Questions

(1) In 1905, a band of Igorrote headhunters performed mock tribal ceremonies in this place’s Luna Park.
The annual July 4th Nathan’s Hot Dog Eating Contest occurs just off the boardwalk at this location, the
site of the New York Aquarium, the Wonder Wheel, and the Cyclone roller coaster. For the point, identify
this beach neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York.
ANSWER: Coney Island (prompt on Brooklyn or New York City)

(2) The Galata Tower is a 14th-century Genoese structure overlooking the historic district of this city. A
church designed by Isidore of Miletus in this city was transformed into a mosque in the 15th century but
lost its ceremonial functions to the Blue Mosque. The Golden Horn, an inlet of the Sea of Marmara, is the
historic harbor of this city. This city straddles the Bosporus, which separates Europe from Asia. For the
point, name this most populous city in Turkey.
ANSWER: Istanbul (prompt on Constantinople)

(3) This country’s central region includes the Yushan Mountains and Sun Moon Lake. Kaohsiung is
the largest city and port in the south of this country. A skyscraper in this country was inspired by the
shape of bamboo and is named for its 101 stories. This island formerly known as Formosa is led by the
Kuomintang. For the point, name this country with capital Taipei.
ANSWER: Taiwan (prompt on Formosa until mentioned, accept Republic of China but do NOT
accept or prompt on China or People’s Republic of China)

(4) Ulan-Ude is the capital of this region’s Buryat Republic. The Tunguska Event was a large explosion
east of the Yenisey River in this region, where the Angara River drains Lake Baikal. This region’s city of
Novosibirsk is on the Ob River, while its port of Vladivostok is on the Sea of Japan. The Ural Mountains
serve as the western border of, for the point, what large region of Russia?
ANSWER: Siberia (prompt on Russian Federation; prompt on North Asia)

(5) Curitiba is the capital of a Brazilian province that shares its name with this river. The cities of Santa
Fe and Rosario are on this river, which receives the Iguazu and Pilcomayo as tributaries. The Yacyreta
and Itaipu Dams on this river produce all of Paraguay’s electricity. For the point, name this second-longest
South American river, which merges with the Uruguay to form the Rio de la Plata.
ANSWER: Parana River

(6) This country’s Gotjawal Forest is located south of South Jeolla Province on Jeju Island. The Taebaek
Mountains, which lie in the east of this country, are the site of its largest port, Busan. In 1950, UN forces
made an amphibious landing at Incheon in this country, whose northern border is formed by the DMZ at
the 38th parallel. For the point, name this country with its capital at Seoul.
ANSWER: South Korea (accept Republic of Korea; accept Taehan-min’guk; do not accept or
prompt on “Democratic People’s Republic of Korea”)



                                                   Page 1
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                    Round 1


(7) The island of Surtsey is one of this type of geological feature, “cinder” examples of which are formed
by tephra. The destroyed town of Herculaneum lies near one of these features in Italy. A national park
named for these features on Hawaii’s Big Island is home to Mauna Loa. 452 of these lie along the “Ring of
Fire” around the Pacific Ocean. For the point, name this type of geological feature whose eruptions can
spew ash and lava.
ANSWER: volcanoes (accept shield volcano before Herculaneum; prompt on mountains)

(8) This country owns the Kerguelen Islands, as well as the islands of Wallis and Futuna in the south
Pacific. In 2018, the Kanak people voted against New Caledonia’s independence from this country.
This country owns a South American territory that contains the primary launch site of the European
Space Agency, Devil’s Island, and the city of Cayenne. For the point, name this country whose overseas
departments include Guadaloupe and Martinique.
ANSWER: France (accept French Republic; accept Republique Francaise)

(9) Slaves in this country developed capoeira, a martial art that combines acrobatics, dance, and music.
This country’s bossa nova style of music is exemplified by the song “The Girl From Ipanema.” The
Alvorada Palace and Planalto Palace were both designed by Oscar Niemeyer for this country’s capital.
For the point, name this country where the statue of Christ the Redeemer overlooks Rio de Janeiro.
ANSWER: Federative Republic of Brazil (or Republica Federativa do Brasil)

(10) L’Orient exploded during a battle in this sea at Aboukir [AH-boo-ker] Bay. Henry the Navigator
captured this sea’s port of Ceuta [THAY-oo-tah], which lies near the Barbary Coast. The Knights
Hospitaller operated from Rhodes before moving to Malta, another island in this sea. For the point, name
this sea from which Richard the Lionhearted occupied Cyprus and Sicily.
ANSWER: Mediterranean Sea

(11) This country’s city of Matmata contains traditional “troglodyte” homes. This country is home to
the ruins of Utica and other Phoenician cities. In 2011, the death of Mohamed Bouazizi after an act of
self-immolation triggered the Jasmine Revolution in its city of Monastir. Sousse and Sfax are cities in this
country that contains the northernmost point of Africa. For the point, name this North African country
between Libya and Algeria.
ANSWER: Republic of Tunisia

(12) This nation’s district of Lasta contains a group of rock-hewn churches at Lalibela. The larger of the
two Tewahedo Orthodox churches is based in this country whose official language is Amharic. Lake Tana,
the source of the Blue Nile, is in this country that gave up control of neighboring Eritrea in 1991. For the
point, name this country with its capital at Addis Ababa.
ANSWER: Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia




                                                  Page 2
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                    Round 1


(13) This country’s Histadrut Bridge crosses its most polluted body of water, the Kishon River. This
nation’s southernmost city, Eilat, lies on the Gulf of Aqaba. This country’s Baha’i Gardens are located
near Mount Carmel in Haifa. The Negev Desert spans much of the south of this country, which is bordered
by Lebanon and Egypt. For the point, the Western Wall and the Dome of the Rock are holy sites in
Jerusalem, the capital of what country?
ANSWER: State of Israel

(14) This country controls the southern portion of the disputed Abyei Region. The Nuer and Dinka, rival
ethnic groups led by Riek Machar and Salva Kiir, are at the center of a civil war in this country. The
Sudd is a large swamp on the White Nile in this country with its capital at Juba. For the point, name this
country that declared its independence from its northern neighbor in 2011, making it the newest country
in the world.
ANSWER: Republic of South Sudan

(15) In 2016, the Permanent Court of Arbitration ruled that this body of water’s Taiping Island was not
entitled to an exclusive economic zone. That ruling came after one country fortified Fiery Cross Reef and
made claims based on the “Nine-Dash Line” in this body of water. Scarborough Shoal and the Spratly
Islands are disputed by China, Taiwan, and the Philippines in, for the point, what body of water east of
Vietnam?
ANSWER: South China Sea (prompt on West Philippine Sea)

(16) A set of structures used to perform this activity in the Philippine Cordilleras became a UNESCO
World Heritage Site in 1995. Terracing is often done to assist in this activity also performed on “swidden,”
a term for land formed through the slash-and-burn method. The “fertile crescent” was an area of land
where this activity eliminated the need for hunter-gatherer societies. For the point, topsoil loss can be
caused by what activity, which utilizes seeds to produce crops?
ANSWER: Agriculture (or farming; accept Terrace or Rice Farming; accept Slash-and-Burn
Agriculture; prompt on equivalent answers like “cultivation”)

(17) Mongla and Khula are cities just north of the Sundarbans in this country. A lack of response to a
1970 cyclone was a driving force in this country declaring independence from Pakistan in 1971. In this
country, the Brahmaputra becomes the Jamuna River before flowing into the Bay of Bengal. Dhaka is the
capital of, for the point, what country bordered on its north, west, and east by India?
ANSWER: People’s Republic of Bangladesh

(18) The endangered Meller’s Duck can be found in this country’s Lake Alaotra [uh LAU trah]. This
country’s Central Highlands was the furthest westward settlement of the Austronesian people. Ninety
percent of all wildlife in this country is endemic due to its isolation from the mainland by the Mozambique
Channel. Antananarivo is the capital of, for the point, what island nation home to over 100 species of
lemur?
ANSWER: Republic of Madagascar




                                                  Page 3
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                   Round 1


(19) Verizon Wireless is facing criticism for throttling data for first responders who assisted in an event
in this state. Two 2018 events near this state’s Clear Lake became known collectively as the Mendocino
Complex. An event in this state named for Camp Creek destroyed the town of Paradise and draped this
state’s Central Valley in smoke. For the point, name this U.S. state where 2018 wildfires affected Los
Angeles County.
ANSWER: State of California

(20) Pilgrims in this country journey along the Way of Saint James to the city of Santiago de Compostela.
This country’s Cantabrian Mountains give their name to the southern portion of the Bay of Biscay. The
city of Bilbao lies near the source of the Ebro River in this country’s autonomous Basque region. For the
point, name this country south of the Pyrenees, with its capital at Madrid.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Spain (accept Reino de España)

(21) The 6th October Bridge crosses the Zamalek neighborhood of this city’s Gezira Island. This city
contains the remnants of the Muslim city Fustat. Known as the city of a thousand minarets, this city’s
Tahrir Square was a major focal point of the Arab Spring. This most populous city in Africa sits across
the river from the Sphinx and the Great Pyramid. For the point, name this city on the Nile River, the
capital of Egypt.
ANSWER: Cairo (or al-Qahira)

(22) The Great and Small Kazan gorges along this river make up part of its “Iron Gates.” The Széchenyi
[Say-Chen-yay] Chain Bridge helped unite two cities on opposite banks of this river. The Morava and
Sava join this river in Bratislava and Belgrade, respectively two of the four capitals along its banks. For
the point, name this second-longest European river, which also flows through Vienna and Budapest before
emptying into the Black Sea.
ANSWER: Danube River

(23) The Kings Chair chalk cliff overlooks this body of water from the island of Rugen. The Aland Islands
are a disputed territory in this body of water, which is connected to the Kattegat by the Oresund Strait.
The Gulf of Bothnia and Gulf of Riga are extensions of this body of water. For the point, name this sea
bordered by Scandinavia, Poland, and a namesake set of three European “states.”
ANSWER: Baltic Sea

(24) Bonny Light is a type of crude oil produced in this country, the largest producer of Cassava in
Africa. Port Harcourt is home to one of the largest refineries in this country, the home of the burgeoning
“Nollywood” film industry. Most of this country’s oil exports come from the area around the Gulf of
Guinea. For the point, name this country with cities Ibadan, Abuja, and Lagos.
ANSWER: Federal Republic of Nigeria




                                                  Page 4
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                   Round 1


(25) The Smithsonian Institution studies rainforests on Barro Colorado Island in this body of water
crossed by the Bridge of the Americas. Dams on the Chagres River create Lake Gatun on this body of
water, which connects the city of Colón [CO-loan] to the Balboa neighborhood of its country’s capital.
The Torrijos-Carter [TOR-ee-hos] treaties ceded American control of this waterway. For the point, name
this artificial waterway connecting the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
ANSWER: Panama Canal

(26) Mount Baker and Mount Adams are volcanoes in this U.S. State home to the Hoh Rainforest and
Olympic National Park. Another park in this state is named for its North Cascades Range. Franklin
Delano Roosevelt Lake is formed by this state’s Grand Coulee Dam on the Columbia River, which later
forms its border with Oregon. For the point, Mount Rainier overlooks Seattle in what state?
ANSWER: State of Washington

(27) This country’s autonomous Accompong community lies in its Cockpit Country. Blue Mountain coffee
is named for the highest peak in this country made up of three counties and fourteen parishes. The resort
center of Montego Bay and the former pirate haven of Port Royal are cities in this country south of Cuba.
For the point, name this Caribbean island with its capital at Kingston.
ANSWER: Jamaica

(28) Bodo and Tromso are the most populous cities in the north of this country, whose Arctic and far
southern territories include Jan Mayen and Bouvet Island, as well as a territory with capital Longyearbyen.
Altafjord and Sognefjord were formed out of this country’s Scandinavian Mountains, while its island of
Svalbard is north of the Barents Sea. For the point, name this country with its capital at Oslo.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Norway

(29) The west coast of this place includes the United States-operated Thule [TOO lee] Air Base, the
growing city of Sisimiut, and its capital, which changed its name from Godthab in 1979. Cape Farewell is
the southernmost point of this least densely populated territory in the world. The Davis Strait separates
this island from Canada’s Baffin Island. For the point, name this constituent country of Denmark with its
capital at Nuuk.
ANSWER: Greenland (accept Kalaallit Nunaat; do not accept or prompt on Denmark)

(30) This country’s Stewart Island can be reached from Invercargill by crossing the Foveaux [FO-VOH]
Strait. Mitre Peak overlooks Milford Sound in this country’s Fjordlands National Park. Mount Cook is
the highest peak of this country’s Southern Alps. This country’s city of Christchurch was damaged by
three earthquakes in 2010 and 2011. For the point, name this country where the Cook Strait separates
South Island from the city of Wellington.
ANSWER: New Zealand (or Aotearoa)




                                                  Page 5
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                Round 1


Tiebreaker

(1) The incomplete American Dream retail complex sits adjacent to several of these buildings in New
Jersey. The Palestra is one of these locations owned by the University of Pennsylvania, while other
facilities of this type stand above North Station in Boston and Penn Station in New York. For the point,
name these venues exemplified by Madison Square Garden.
ANSWER: arenas (accept sports stadiums; accept specific types like courts or rinks and obvious
equivalents)




                                                Page 6
