International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                  Round 3



                                            Round 3
Regulation Questions

(1) This state’s pink granite Enchanted Rock can be found in its Edwards Plateau, while its cities of
Midland and Odessa are near oil reserves in the Permian Basin. The Trinity River and Colorado River
flow through major cities in this state, where Big Bend National Park, Brownsville, and El Paso are found
along the Rio Grande. For the point, name this state with its capital at Austin.
ANSWER: State of Texas

(2) This country’s Caruachi Dam generates hydroelectric power from the Caroni River. Many tepuis, tall
table-like mountains, can be found in this country’s Guiana Highlands. This country’s Catatumbo River
experiences hundreds of lightning strikes every day and feeds into its Lake Maracaibo. For the point,
Angel Falls and the Orinoco River are in what country with capital Caracas?
ANSWER: Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela

(3) Many members of this ethnic group live in refugee camps around the city of Cox’s Bazar. A 1982
law denied citizenship to members of this group, who live in the Rakhine State on the Andaman Sea. In
2017, the UN declared the military violence against this group a crime against humanity and criticized
State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi for inaction. For the point, identify this Islamic ethnic group made
effectively stateless by Myanmar.
ANSWER: Rohingya

(4) This country’s city of Kutna Hora is home to the Sedlec Ossuary, which contains an elaborately
designed chandelier made of human bones. Less macabre attractions in this country include the Charles
Bridge across the Vltava River in its capital, which contains a statue of Saint Wenceslas. Moravia and
Bohemia are the primary regions of this country west of Slovakia. For the point, name this Central
European country with cities Brno and Prague.
ANSWER: Czechia (or Czech Republic)

(5) This feature’s Jinshanling [Jin-shan-ling] section crosses extremely steep slopes. Shanhai Pass,
the “First Pass Under Heaven,” is near this strcuture’s end at the Bohai Sea. This structure’s native
name refers to its length of ten thousand li. Its longest section stretches from Mount Hu to the Jiayu
[Jah-Yu] Pass. For the point, name this 4500-mile long structure completed by Qin Shihuangdi [Chin
Shuh-Hwang-Dee] in Northern China.
ANSWER: Great Wall of China (accept Wanli Changcheng)

(6) This country’s cuisine includes the entrees of Rfissa [Ruh-FISS-uh] and Chicken Bastilla as well as
the soup Harira. Bojador and Laayoune are cities controlled by this country in a territory disputed by the
Polisario Front. Marrakesh and Casablanca are in this country, which serves as the western terminus of
the Atlas Mountains. For the point, name this country with its capital at Rabat.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Morocco (accept al-Maghrib)



                                                 Page 1
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                   Round 3


(7) This city’s Ajyad Fortress was destroyed to construct the world’s largest clock face and the Abraj Al
Bait Towers. A structure in this city is covered by the Kiswah and cleaned twice a year with rose water.
That edifice stands 20 meters away from this city’s Well of Zamzam. In this city, a black cube in the Great
Mosque is circled seven times during the Hajj. For the point, name this holiest city in Islam.
ANSWER: Mecca (accept Makkah)

(8) This island’s Chudu Region contains the Akaishi Mountains, which lie south of its Hida and Kiso
Mountains. This island’s Tohoku Region contains the Miyagi and Fukushima Prefectures. Hokusai’s South
Wind, Clear Sky depicts this island’s Mount Fuji, and its Kanto region includes the city of Yokohama.
For the point, Tokyo is on what largest and most populous Japanese island?
ANSWER: Honshu

(9) The city of Vladikavkaz lies on the Terek River in this mountain range. This mountain range’s largest
lake, Lake Sevan, is east of Mount Aragats. Autonomous regions on this range’s northern slopes include
Nagorno-Karabakh and Dagestan. This range also contains Chechnya, a Russian subject west of the
Caspian Sea. Mount Elbrus is the highest point of, for the point, what mountain range separating Europe
from Asia?
ANSWER: Caucasus Mountains (or Caucasia)

(10) The Lady and the Unicorn tapestries can be found in this city’s Museum of the Middle Ages, which
was formerly the Cluny Museum. A former train station in this city now houses Impressionist art as the
Musée d’Orsay. This city’s Tuileries [TOOL er ies] Gardens are adjacent to a museum served by a large
glass pyramid designed by I.M. Pei [Pay]. For the point, name this city home to the Louvre.
ANSWER: Paris

(11) Nineteen windmills used to drain water from the ground are a World Heritage Site in this country.
This country’s Afsluitdijk [AHF-sloy-DIKE] blocked access to the Wadden Sea and turned the Zuiderzee
into the lake Ijsselmeer [I-SIL-MEER] as part of its system of draining polders. The largest container port
in Europe is just north of this country’s Waal River, the main branch of the Rhine delta. For the point,
name this country with its capital at Amsterdam.
ANSWER: Netherlands (prompt on “Holland”)

(12) Rai Stones of up to twelve feet in diameter were used as currency on one island in this region. U.S.
territories in this region include Wake Island, the Northern Mariana Islands, and Guam. Palikir is the
capital of a set of “federated states,” including Pohnpei and Yap, named for this region. For the point,
name this Pacific region contrasted with Melanesia and Polynesia, named for its small islands.
ANSWER: Micronesia (accept Federated States of Micronesia; prompt on Pacific Ocean; prompt on
Oceania)




                                                  Page 2
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                   Round 3


(13) Flamingos flock to this region’s Makgadikgadi [Mack-adi-kadi] Salt Pans. This region contains
Kgalagadi [Kala-Gadi] Transfrontier Park, known for its namesake lions. This desert’s Omaheke Province
is home to the majority of the Herero people. The Okavango River flows through this desert before
reaching its inland delta. The Khoi-San live in, for the point, what African desert covering much of
Namibia and Botswana?
ANSWER: Kalahari Desert (accept Republic of Botswana before “desert”)

(14) This country and its southern neighbor share Cerro El Pital, one of the tallest peaks of its Interior
Highlands. The Islas de la Bahia lie north of this country, which is served by the port of San Lorenzo on
the Gulf of Fonseca. San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa are the most populous cities in this country. For the
point, name this central American country bordering El Salvador and Nicaragua.
ANSWER: Republic of Honduras

(15) This island’s Connemara region is known for a namesake breed of show pony. The Aran Islands lie
off Galway Bay on the west coast of this island, while the Isle of Man lies to its east. Kerry and Cork are
counties on the southwest of this island whose north is home to the Ulster region. St. George’s Channel
separates this island from Wales. For the point, name this island with cities Belfast and Dublin.
ANSWER: Ireland (accept Eire)

(16) Landscapes created by this phenomenon are described as “aeolian.” Varieties of this phenomenon,
which is measured by the Beaufort Scale, include the Chinook and Santa Ana, the latter of which is
very dry and can help spread wildfires. The Doldrums are regions characterized by a relative lack of this
phenomenon, which made for slow movement by sailing ships. For the point, name this phenomenon, the
movement of air through the atmosphere.
ANSWER: wind

(17) One proposal for cleaning this river involves diverting water from Lake Manasarovar during the dry
season. The Kumbh Mela is a mass pilgrimage to this river, which flows past the holy city of Varanasi.
Allahabad, the judicial capital of Uttar Pradesh, lies at this river’s confluence with the Yamuna. For the
point, name this north Indian river held sacred by Hindus.
ANSWER: Ganges River (or Ganga)

(18) The Merced and Tuolumne [too-AH-lum-ee] Wild and Scenic Rivers begin in this park. The Sierra
Club opposed the creation of the 1923 O’Shaughnessy Dam in the Hetch Hetchy Valley of this park. The
documentary Free Solo covered Alex Honnold’s climb of a rock feature in this park, the setting of the
Ansel Adams photographs Moon Over Half Dome and El Capitan. For the point, name this national park
in the Sierra Nevada Mountains of California.
ANSWER: Yosemite National Park




                                                  Page 3
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                   Round 3


(19) US Highways 15 and 30 meet just to the east of this town, located seven miles north of the
Mason-Dixon Line. A peach orchard on Emmitsburg Road and a boulder field known as Devil’s Den are
tourist sites near this town. Promontories to the south of this town include Little Round Top and Cemetery
Hill, the latter of which was the target of Pickett’s Charge. For the point, name this Pennsylvania town,
the namesake of a pivotal July 1863 Civil War battle.
ANSWER: Gettysburg, Pennsylvania

(20) Dettifoss is an extremely strong one of these features found near Husavik, Iceland. The second-tallest
one of these features in the world located is in the Drakensberg Mountains and on the Tugela River.
An extremely large one of these objects is located near Livingstone on the Zambezi River. Horseshoe
and Bridal Veil are two of these objects on the U.S.-Canadian border. For the point, name these natural
features that include Victoria and Niagara.
ANSWER: Waterfalls

(21) The Judenplatz in this city has a Holocaust memorial designed by Rachel Whiteread and a statue
of Gotthold Ephraim Lessing. It’s not Budapest, but toward the end of World War II, Joseph Dietrich
spared the gothic St. Stephen’s cathedral in this city. Famous palaces in this city include the Belvedere
Palace built by Eugene of Savoy, as well as the Habsburg dynasty’s Hofburg and Schönbrunn Palaces. For
the point, name this capital of Austria.
ANSWER: Vienna (or Wien)

(22) The Nacional Monte de Piedad [Na-see-oh-Nal Mown-Tay day Pee-a-Dad] is a pawnshop and loan
institution first established in this city during the 18th century. Famous residences in this city include
Leon Trotsky’s house and the Blue House, the former home of Frida Kahlo and Diego Rivera. This most
populous city in North America is home to the Estadio Azteca. For the point, name this capital of Mexico.
ANSWER: Mexico City (accept City of Mexico or Ciudad de Mexico; prompt on Tenochitlan)

(23) This object’s base is the location of the National Sylvan Theater, the first federally-funded outdoor
theater in America. From 1884 to 1889, this object was the tallest structure in the world. This object
is viewable from the White House, Capitol Building, and Lincoln Memorial due to its position on the
National Mall. For the point, name this 555-foot tall obelisk dedicated to the first US president.
ANSWER: Washington Monument

(24) Scientists discovered that this island’s Fore [Fo-ray] tribe suffered from a fatal disease called Kuru
due to cannibalistic practices. The Bird’s Head and Bird’s Tail are two peninsulas on this island, whose
highest peak is Puncak Jaya. This island is separated from Australia by the Torres Strait. For the point,
name this island, which includes the Indonesian province of West Papua as well as the city of Port
Moresby.
ANSWER: New Guinea (accept Papua; do not accept Papua New Guinea)




                                                  Page 4
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                   Round 3


(25) The highest campsite on this mountain is located above Reusch Crater and is a short hike from its
Furtwangler Glacier. The Barranco Wall is an obstacle for climbers on this mountain’s Machame Trail.
Shira, Mawenzi, and Kibo are volcanic cones on this mountain first summitted by Ludwig Purtscheller
and Hans Meyer. Uhuru Peak is the summit of, for the point, what Tanzanian mountain, the tallest in
Africa?
ANSWER: Mount Kilimanjaro

(26) It’s not lead, but Australia’s Cannington Mine is the largest producer of this resource in the world.
Virginia City, Nevada was a mid-1800s boomtown for the mining of this resource. Large deposits of this
metal were mined at the Comstock Lode in the U.S. and at Potosi in Bolivia. Argentina is named for, for
the point, what metal that is less valuable than gold?
ANSWER: Silver (accept Ag; prompt on “Argentum”)

(27) One of two “Friendship Bridges” that cross this river connects Mukdahan [Mook-Dah-Han] and
Savannakhet [Sah-van-nah-ket] Provinces. This river’s reddish Naga Fireballs rise a few hundred meters
into the air before disappearing. The Tonlé [TAHN-LAY] Sap is a tributary of this river, which flows
through Vientiane and Phnom Penh [puh-NOM Pen] en route to Vietnam and the South China Sea. The
boundary between Thailand and Laos is formed by, for the point, what southeast Asian river?
ANSWER: Mekong River

(28) The entrance to one of these places is near Maihama [May-hama] Station and is a shopping center
called the “World Bazaar.” The oldest extant one of these locations is located in Copenhagen and named
Tivoli Gardens. One of these locations on Lantau Island incorporates feng shui into areas like “Main Street
U.S.A.” and “Adventureland.” For the point, name these recreational areas that include Hong Kong and
Tokyo Disneyland.
ANSWER: Amusement parks (accept theme parks; accept specific types like Tokyo Disneyland;
accept Disneylands or Disney Parks before “Copenhagen”)

(29) The only natural lake in this country, Lake Bosumtwi, was formed by the impact of a meteorite and
is southeast of Kumasi. In 1900, British attempts to take the Golden Stool of the Ashanti Kingdom led to
a war in what is now this country. One river in this country has white, red, and black branches and forms
the world’s largest artificial lake. The Akosombo Dam forms Lake Volta in, for the point, what country
with capital Accra?
ANSWER: Republic of Ghana

(30) Many natives in the area around this river live in long houses called malocas. The Pororoca is a
tidal phenomenon of this river near Marajo Island. The world’s largest blackwater river, the Rio Negro
[NAY-GRO], is a tributary of this river that flows past Belem and Manaus. Anacondas and piranhas live
in and around this river, which shares its name with an extremely biodiverse rainforest. For the point,
name this longest river in South America.
ANSWER: Amazon River (accept Rio Amazonas)




                                                  Page 5
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                    Round 3


Tiebreaker

(1) This country’s Plitvice [PLIT-vitz-uh] Lakes National Park is home to a series of scenic waterfalls
due to its karst topography. Dubrovnik, a city in the far south of this country, is where part of the series
Game of Thrones is filmed. This country’s region of Dalmatia contains numerous islands in the Adriatic
Sea. This former component of Yugoslavia lies between Slovenia and Bosnia. For the point, name this
country with capital Zagreb.
ANSWER: Republic of Croatia




                                                  Page 6
