International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                     Round 4



                                             Round 4
Regulation Questions

(1) Many bright-colored residences line the streets of this city’s Bo-Kaap neighborhood, which lies near
Signal Hill. This city is creating desalination plants due to a water crisis based around “day zero.” Devil’s
Peak and Table Mountain form this city’s mountainous backdrop. This city’s Robben Island was the site
of a prison that housed Jacob Zuma and Nelson Mandela. For the point, name this legislative capital of
South Africa.
ANSWER: Cape Town (accept Kaapstad or Ikapa)

(2) A 400-year-old one of these things in the Arabian Desert lies 2 kilometers from Jebel Dukhan,
Bahrain’s highest point. A very wide one of these objects is in the center of Santa Maria del Tule in
Oaxaca. Examples of these organisms in California national parks include Del Norte Titan and General
Sherman. A variety of these organisms are found on Madagascar’s Avenue of the Baobabs. For the point,
name these plants that include redwoods and eucalyptus.
ANSWER: Trees (accept specific types of trees like redwood, sequoia, cypress, Jammi, or Ghaf
before mention)

(3) This country’s highest point, the extinct volcano Nevado Sajama, is located in its Oruro Department.
This country’s Yungas Road has been called “the most dangerous road in the world.” The Uyuni Salt
Falts are in the Altiplano area of this country home to the dried-up lake Poopó [PO-O-PO] and the
southern half of Lake Titicaca. For the point, name this country with its capitals at Sucre and La Paz.
ANSWER: Plurinational state of Bolivia (accept Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia)

(4) This city experiences massive tidal peaks called acqua alta. This city’s Piombi Prison is the destination
of the Bridge of Sighs, while its Piazza San Marco connects St. Mark’s Basilica to the Doge’s Palace. This
city’s namesake lagoon includes Burano and Lido and is enclosed by the Adriatic Sea. For the point, the
Grand Canal is the main thoroughfare of what Italian city?
ANSWER: Venice (or Venezia)

(5) This state’s Pamola Peak is connected to its highest point by the Knife Edge trail of Baxter State
Park. In this state’s coastal Downeast region, Cadillac Mountain overlooks the Atlantic Ocean from
Mount Desert Island. Whitewater rafting is popular in the Kennebec Gorge of this state home to Mount
Katahdin, the northern terminus of the Appalachian Trail. For the point, Acadia National Park is in what
New England state with its capital at Augusta?
ANSWER: State of Maine




                                                   Page 1
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                   Round 4


(6) This lake contains the extremely densely populated Migingo Island. John Hanning Speke, who names
a gulf of this lake, was the first European to view this body of water. The Kagera River flows into this
lake, and the cities of Jinja, Entebbe, and Kampala lie along its shores. This lake, the primary source of
the White Nile, borders Uganda, Kenya, and Tanzania. For the point, name this largest lake in Africa,
named for a 19th-century British Queen.
ANSWER: Lake Victoria (accept Nalubaale or Nyanza)

(7) White settlers on this island attempted to either kill its native inhabitants or send them to Flinders
Island in the “black war.” The thylacine was a carnivorous marsupial called the “tiger” or “wolf” of this
island, which is separated from Victoria by the Bass Strait. A namesake “devil” is an endangered species
in, for the point, what island state of Australia with its capital at Hobart?
ANSWER: Tasmania

(8) The Welsh settlement of Trelew is the most populous city in the Chubut River Valley of this region.
Laguna del Carbon, the lowest point of the Western Hemisphere, is in this region. The Valdes Peninsula
is in this region that extends down to Punta Arenas, which lies across the Strait of Magellan from Tierra
del Fuego. For the point, name this cold and windy region of southern Chile and Argentina.
ANSWER: Patagonia (prompt on Argentina before “Punta Arenas”)

(9) This country owns the islands of Likoma and Chizumulu. This country’s Michiru Mountain is located
near its “commercial capital” of Blantyre. This country’s Shire Highlands are named for its longest river,
whose source is an African Great Lake on the eastern border of this country. For the point, Lilongwe is
the capital of what African nation with a namesake lake bordering Tanzania and Mozambique?
ANSWER: Republic of Malawi

(10) This biome is denoted as ET in the Koppen climate classification system. Stunted forests in this
biome are known as Krummholz and occur lower in elevation than this biome’s “Alpine” variety. This
biome, which occurs closer to the poles than Taiga, is home to musk ox, caribou, and lichens, and is
usually characterized by permafrost. For the point, name this treeless biome found in extremely cold areas.
ANSWER: Tundra (accept Arctic Tundra or Antarctic Tundra or Alpine Tundra)

(11) During this event, street bands play Afoxê music, a secularized version of candombé. Blocos de
Rua participate in this event, the primary locale for frevo music. Stadiums known as sambodromo host
parades featuring samba schools during this event in cities like Belo Horizonte and São Paulo. For the
point, identify this popular festival that occurs before Lent in Brazil.
ANSWER: Carnival of Brazil (accept Carnaval do Brasil; accept Brazilian Carnival)




                                                  Page 2
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                   Round 4


(12) In 2017, the USS John S. McCain collided with an oil tanker just east of this body of water,
whose narrowest point is the Philips Channel. Vessels unable to navigate through the southward Sunda
Strait instead sail through this body of water, which would be circumvented by a proposed canal through
the Isthmus of Kra. Singapore is located at the eastern entrance of, for the point, what strait between
Sumatra and the Malay Peninsula?
ANSWER: Strait of Malacca (or Straits of Malacca)

(13) An island in this ocean features Jacob’s Ladder, which connects Half Tree Hollow to its capital of
Jamestown. This ocean contains the Nightingale Islands, which are located near Edinburgh of the Seven
Seas on Tristan da Cunha. This ocean contains remote islands like Ascension and St. Helena, as well as
an island group with capital Stanley. For the point, the Falkland Islands are off the coast of Argentina in
what ocean?
ANSWER: Atlantic Ocean

(14) This country’s second-largest city of Erdenet lies between the Orkhon and Selenge Rivers, and
its Lake Khövsgöl is the “younger sister” of a neighboring country’s Lake Baikal. Dinosaur eggs and
Velociraptor fossils were discovered at this country’s Flaming Cliffs in the 1920s. Round, portable houses
called yurts can be found in this nation, which includes the northern portion of the Gobi Desert. For the
point, name this country with its capital at Ulaanbaatar.
ANSWER: Mongolia (accept Outer Mongolia; accept Monggol Ulus)

(15) Playa El Medano and Playa del Amor are popular beaches at the southern tip of this region. The
Peninsular Ranges cover much of this region, which is bordered to the east by the Colorado River. Cabo
San Lucas is a resort town on this peninsula whose far north includes Tijuana. For the point, name this
Mexican peninsula bordering the Gulf of California.
ANSWER: Baja California

(16) This country is home to the Kaylan Minaret in the city of Bukhara, while its Aydar Lake is part of
its Kyzylkum [Kiz-il-koom] Desert. This country, containing the mouth of the Amu Darya, houses much of
the Fergana Valley. This doubly-landlocked country shares the remnants of the Aral Sea with neighboring
Kazakhstan. For the point, name this country with cities Samarkand and Tashkent.
ANSWER: Republic of Uzbekistan

(17) This region contains the ruins of Panticapaeum [PAN-tea-kuh-pee-um] in its city of Kerch. This
region features a walking trail called the “Tsar’s Path” near the Livadia Palace and the resort city of
Yalta. This peninsula’s port of Sevastopol was besieged in an 1850s conflict between the Ottomans and
Russia. For the point, name this Russia-controlled peninsula bordering the Sea of Azov and the Black Sea.
ANSWER: Crimean Peninsula




                                                  Page 3
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                     Round 4


(18) The Fernsehturm radio tower, the tallest structure in this city, is located just off its Alexanderplatz
square, while most buildings at its Potsdamer Platz were constructed entirely after 1995. This city’s
Tempelhof Airport is now a large public park. Mitte, the central borough of this city on the Spree River,
includes the Tiergarten and Brandenburg Gate, and once also housed Checkpoint Charlie. For the point,
name this capital of Germany.
ANSWER: Berlin

(19) One governor of this state visited the closed Island Beach State Park during a government shutdown
and spent time with Barack Obama after this state was hit by Hurricane Sandy in 2012. In 2013, political
aides caused traffic chaos in Fort Lee near the George Washington Bridge in an act of political revenge in
this state. For the point, name this U.S. state formerly led by Chris Christie and where shady politicians
have had ties to organized crime in its cities of Camden, Paterson, and Newark.
ANSWER: State of New Jersey

(20) One of these structures named Kopu is located on Hiiumaa [He-eye-uh-maa] Island in Estonia. A
nearly 2,000-year-old Roman one of these structures in Corunna, Spain is called the Tower of Hercules.
In 1994, statues of Arsinoe and the other remains of one of these structures were discovered in the
Mediterranean Sea. That one of these structures was destroyed by a 1323 earthquake in Alexandria. For
the point, name these towers that help guide ships.
ANSWER: Lighthouses

(21) One mayor of this city derisively referred to its half-dome-shaped city hall as “the onion.” A
cylindrical skyscraper in this city has alternating bands of light and dark glass, is known as “the Gherkin,”
and is located at 30 St. Mary Axe. Renzo Piano used over 11,000 panels of glass in his design of The
Shard, this city’s tallest building. For the point, name this city where Norman Foster included a massive
arch in his design for Wembley Stadium.
ANSWER: London

(22) This color names the subrange of the Blue Ridge Mountains that includes Mount Mitchell, as well as
the canyon where the Hoover Dam was built. Wind Cave and Jewel Cave are located in a mountain range
named for this color. The Crazy Horse Memorial is being built southwest of Rapid City near a landmark
designed by Gutzon Borglum in a region named for this color. For the point, name this color that titles a
set of “hills” in South Dakota.
ANSWER: black (accept Black Mountains; accept Black Canyon; accept Black Hills)

(23) This region’s Governador Nobre de Carvalho bridge appears below a lotus flower on its flag. The
manmade town of Cotai united this city’s islands of Coloane and Taipa. The Grand Lisboa and a namesake
Venetian casino help give this city the nickname “the Monte Carlo of the Orient.” For the point, name
this former Portuguese colony across the Pearl River delta from Hong Kong.
ANSWER: Macau (accept Aomen)




                                                   Page 4
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                  Round 4


(24) This country’s colonizers frequently clashed with its Kru and Grebo tribes. In the 1990s, this
country’s Charles Taylor was accused of using blood diamonds to fund the RUF in Sierra Leone. Buchanan
is the third-most populous city in this country, which experienced two civil wars that ended with the
election of Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. Monrovia is the capital of, for the point, what African country founded
by freed American slaves?
ANSWER: Republic of Liberia

(25) A pillar at Mount Sodom along this body of water is said be where Lot’s wife was turned to salt.
In 1946, several ancient texts were discovered by Bedouin shepherds at Wadi Qumran near this body of
water. Plans to connect this body of water to the Red Sea have been prompted by the diversion of the
Jordan River, the main water source for this lake. For the point, the lowest point of land elevation on
Earth is at what salty sea in eastern Israel?
ANSWER: Dead Sea (accept Sea of Salt)

(26) Fort Zachary Taylor and Harry Truman’s “Little White House” are historic sites in the Old Town of
this city, which holds an annual celebration of independence for the Conch Republic. Ernest Hemingway
wrote “The Snows of Kilimanjaro” while staying in this city. This island lies at the southern end of U.S.
Route 1, past Big Pine and Largo. For the point, name this southernmost city of the continental U.S., the
westernmost of the Florida Keys.
ANSWER: Key West

(27) Three of these animals appear on the flag of post-1959 British Hong Kong, while another is on the
George Cross in the top left of Malta’s flag. The Mabinogion served as the inspiration for a red one of
these animals on the flag of Wales. A white one of these animals named Druk appears on a gold and
orange background on Bhutan’s flag. For the point, name these mythical, fire-breathing reptiles.
ANSWER: Dragons (prompt on serpents)

(28) A “big” one of these objects on Lantau Island is surrounded by sculptures known as “The Offering
of the Six Devas.” In 2001, the Taliban blew up two of these objects carved in a cliff face in Bamiyan,
Afghanistan. Wat Pho in Thailand is the location of “reclining” sculptures of this type. A Chinese
sculpture of this type is named for nearby Spring Temple. For the point, identify these works of art
depicting the founder of an Asian religion.
ANSWER: Buddha statues (accept equivalents such as Buddhas or sculptures of Buddha; prompt
on Buddhist statues)

(29) A country must spend two years in ERM II [two] in order to join this region. Mario Centeno leads
a group that governs this region, while Mario Draghi leads its central bank. This region was created in
1999, and most recently added Lithuania in 2015. Switzerland and the United Kingdom are not in this
region due to their use of the franc and the pound. For the point, name this region of nineteen countries
who use a common currency.
ANSWER: Eurozone (or Euro Area; accept answers relating to countries that use the Euro; do not
accept or prompt on “Europe,” “European Union,” or “EU”)



                                                 Page 5
International Geography Bee Regionals 2018-2019                                                   Round 4


(30) The York Factory and the Prince of Wales Fort were built on the shore of this body of water, near
the city of Churchill. The Nelson River drains Lake Winnipeg into this body of water, which contains the
uninhabited Ottawa Islands and the smaller James Bay. For the point, name this large body of water in
northeastern Canada, named for an English explorer.
ANSWER: Hudson’s Bay

Tiebreaker

(1) The first modern European to note this feature was on the expedition led by Pedro Cabral that
discovered Brazil. Two parts of this feature are useful in navigation as they point approximately south.
This asterism appears on the national flags of Papua New Guinea, New Zealand, and Australia and is
part of the Crux constellation. For the point, name this collection of stars seen primarily in the Southern
Hemisphere and named for its resemblance to a Christian religious symbol.
ANSWER: Southern Cross (accept Crux before mentioned)




                                                  Page 6
