IGB Regionals 2019-2020                                                                            Round 4



                                            Round 4
Regulation Questions

(1) This country’s main islands are separated by the bay High Water, while its smaller islands are
separated by the Koro Sea. This country is served by the Nadi International Airport. This country’s
Mount Tomanivi is the headwaters of its widest river, the Rewa River. The islands of Viti Levu and Vanua
Lau are located in, for ten points, what South Pacific Oceanic country with capital Suva?
ANSWER: Fiji

(2) This country’s highest peak of Tukosmera and Sulphur Bay are the center of the John Frum cargo
cult. The Bislama creole is from this country. Pedro Fernandez de Queiros was the first European to land
in this country, which was formerly known as the New Hebrides. Tanna and Espiritu Santo are islands in,
for ten points, what Melenasian country between Fiji and the Solomon Islands governed from Port Vila.
ANSWER: Vanuatu

(3) In 2018, one of these locations in London auctioned 1,200 rolls of toilet paper. Secretary of State Mike
Pompeo has forbidden flying LGBT pride flags at these locations, an order that some of these locations
in Seoul and Chennai have defied. One of these locations was recently moved from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.
For ten points, name these locations where the United States is represented in foriegn countries.
ANSWER: U.S. embassies (accept diplomatic missions; accept foriegn missions)

(4) This country is home to the headwaters of the White Drin river and its highest point is Velika Rudoka.
This country’s Rugova Canyon is located in its southwest region of Metohija. This country carried out
an ethnic cleansing campaign against Serbs in the 1990s. Pristina is the capital of, for ten points, what
Albanian majority country that declared independence from Serbia in 2008?
ANSWER: Kosovo

(5) This city’s Lekki neighborhood is home to the Nike Art Center. This city’s Ikoyi neighborhood is
home to an artificial island called Banana Island, which was originally titled Lagoon City. This city is the
center of the Nollywood film industry. This city is the largest city in Africa and was replaced by Abuja as
its country’s capital. For ten points, name this largest city in Nigeria.
ANSWER: Lagos

(6) This mountain range is home to Shenandoah National Park, which is contained in the subrange the
Blue Ridge Mountains. This mountain range includes the subrange of the Black Mountains, which contain
Mount Mitchell. This mountain range’s namesake trail terminates at Mt. Katahdin in Maine. For ten
points, name this mountain range in the eastern United States, whose namesake trail starts in Georgia.
ANSWER: Appalachian Mountains (prompt on Blue Ridge Mountains before it is read)




                                                  Page 1
IGB Regionals 2019-2020                                                                            Round 4


(7) This desert is home to the Oyu Tolgoi Project, which is operated by the Canadian company, Turquoise
Hill Resources. The Dzungarian Basin and Tian Shan Mountains lie to the west of this desert. This desert
is home to a supposed “death worm.” This desert is home to the Nemegt Basin, where the first dinosaur
eggs were discovered For ten points, name this desert that covers northwest China and Mongolia.
ANSWER: Gobi Desert

(8) This archipelago is home to a fjord named San Carlos Water, which was an important landing spot
for the British during one war. This archipelago is home to Brenton Loch, which is part of the Grantham
Sound. Port Louis is the former capital of this archipelago, whose modern day capital is Stanley. For ten
points, name this archipelago, which was the subject of a 1980s war between the U.K. and Argentina.
ANSWER: Falkland Islands (or the Falklands)

(9) Just off the shore of this peninsula is the Chicxulub Crater, which may have been formed by the
impact that wiped out the dinosaurs. That impact also formed the many cenotes sinkholes on this
peninsula. The province of Campeche is located on this peninsula, as is the city of Cancun. For ten points,
name this Mexican peninsula, which separates the Caribbean Sea from the Gulf of Mexico.
ANSWER: Yucatan

(10) This country’s national library is housed in the Casa Bauró. This country is home to the the ski
resort town of Arinsal. This country’s two princes are comprised of the Bishop of Urgell and the President
of France. Along with Spain, this is the only country where Catalan is an official language. The Pyrenees
is home to, for ten points, what small country between France and Spain?
ANSWER: Andorra

(11) This mountain range contains Lake Turgoyak, which is home to a series of megalithic sites on Vera
Island. Mountains in this range include Mount Yamantau and Mount Narodnaya. This range divides the
watersheds of the Ob and Volga rivers. During Soviet rule, this mountain range was used as the primary
mineral supply for Russia. For ten points, name this mountain range that separates Europe from Asia.
ANSWER: Ural Mountains (or the Urals)

(12) This country’s capital is home to a set of 31 water towers, most of which are mushroom shaped and
have blue stripes. This country is home to Green Island Park, which was built on the first artificial island
in the Persian Gulf. This country is home to the Great Burgan Oil Field, which was set on fire by the
forces of Saddam Hussein. For ten points, name this country which was invaded by Iraq in 1990.
ANSWER: Kuwait

(13) One river with this name is formed from the confluence of the Bois de Sioux and Otter Trail River,
and empties into Lake Winnipeg. Another river with this name is known as the Thao River during its
upper portion and empties into the Gulf of Tonkin near Hanoi. For ten points, give the common, colorful,
name shared by the 2nd longest river in Vietnam and a salt river that forms the Texas-Oklahoma border.
ANSWER: Red River (or Hong Ha; accept Song Cai; accept Yuan River)




                                                  Page 2
IGB Regionals 2019-2020                                                                            Round 4


(14) In this city, John Russell Pope was inspired by the Roman Pantheon to create a structure outlined
by several ionic columns. A monument in this city is topped by aluminum and, before being supplanted
by the Eiffel Tower, was once the tallest structure in the world. Structures commemorating Thomas
Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln, and George Washington are located in, for ten points, what capital of the
United States?
ANSWER: Washington, D.C.

(15) This region is home to the extinct volcanoes Homa Mountain and Ol Doinyo Lengai. This region
is home to the Mara River, which fills the Masai Mara Reservoir. This plain lies next to the Great Rift
Valley and is home to the Olduvai Gorge. This region is home to the Great Migration, the world’s largest
migration of wildebeests. For ten points, name this large plain in Tanzania, home to a famous wildlife
reserve.
ANSWER: Serengeti Plain (accept Serengeti National Park)

(16) This country is home to the Stanegate, a Roman road that was guarded by the fort of Vindolanda.
Another site in this country is home to the possible grave of King Raedwald and a notable buried ship.
That site is Sutton Hoo. Another site in this country was home to Druidic rituals and consists of stone
arches that line up with the Winter Solstice. For ten points, name this country home to Stonehenge.
ANSWER: England (prompt on the United Kingdom, UK, Great Britain, or Britain; do NOT accept or
prompt on Wales of Scotland)

(17) This country’s capital is home to the Taktsang Monastery, which is known in English as the Tiger
Nest. This country claims full ownership of Gangkhar Puensum, which is the tallest unclimbed mountain
in the world. This country’s official language is Dzongkha, which is written with Tibetan script. The
House of Wangchuck rules, for ten points, what small Himalayan kingdom with capital Thimphu?
ANSWER: Bhutan

(18) The Kwakiutl people are native to this province, where their practices of Potlatch and totem pole
building were studied. This province’s largest island is separated from the U.S. by the Strait of Juan de
Fuca. This province’s capital of Victoria is located on that island, which sits just north of Washington
state. For ten points, name this pacific northwest province home to Vancouver Island.
ANSWER: British Columbia

(19) This city’s Ciutat Vella district is home to the historic castle Palau de la Generalitat. One modernist
building in this city is nicknamed The Quarry. In addition to Casa Mila, this city is home to Park Guell,
both of which were designed by Antoni Guadi. The incomplete cathedral Sagrada Familia is also in this
city. For ten points, name this capital of Catalan, the second largest city in Spain.
ANSWER: Barcelona




                                                  Page 3
IGB Regionals 2019-2020                                                                            Round 4


(20) The upper half of this river is known as the Lancang, and this river becomes unavailable at the
Khone Phapheng Falls. This river is home to mysterious lights that are known as Naga Fireballs. This
river is home to a namesake kind of giant stingray and catfish. Cities on this river include Vientiane and
Phnom Penh. For ten points, name this river in southeast Asia that empties into the South China sea in
Vietnam.
ANSWER: Mekong

(21) This river’s minor tributaries include the Sankarani and Kaduna. The city of San is found near this
river’s inland delta which is formed by its confluence with the Bani river.This river’s primary tributary is
the Benue River. This river flows through Bamako and Timbuktu on its way to the Gulf of Guinea. For
ten points, name this west African river which shares its name with a country with capital Niamey.
ANSWER: Niger [nee-jair] River

(22) One city in this mountain range is home to the Jemaa el-Fnaa square, which was the location of an
unfinished mosque built by al-Mansour. Another city in this mountain range is home to the world’s oldest
continually operating university. Those cities are Marrakesh and Fez. This mountain range is named for a
titan tasked with holding up the sky. For ten points, name this north African mountain range.
ANSWER: Atlas Mountains

(23) The Pumapunku and Gate of the Sun are two ruins in this country’s Tiwanaku site. This country
is home to the Yungas Road, which is known as the world’s most dangerous road. With its northern
neighbor, this country controls Lake Titicaca. With Chile and Peru, this country controls the Altiplano.
For ten points, name this landlocked South American country with capitals at La Paz and Sucre.
ANSWER: Bolivia

(24) In Hawaii, people who raised these animals are known as paniolo, a corruption of the word Espanol.
They’re not horses, but the charros of Mexico were trained to raise these animals. In South America,
these animals are often raised by gauchos. The invention of barbed wire helped end the open range type
of raising these animals. Ranching involves raising, for ten points, what animals raised for milk and beef?
ANSWER: cows (or bovines; or cattle; accept bulls or calves)

(25) This island’s Mt. Meakan is home to Lake Akan, which features boiling mud. This island forms the
largest of its country’s prefectures and is home to the majority of modern Ainu people. This island is
separated from Sakhalin by the La Perouse Strait and is separated from Honshu by the Tsugaru Strait.
The city of Sapporo is located on, for ten points, what northernmost of Japan’s major islands?
ANSWER: Hokkaido

(26) The state that shares its name with this city is home to Guanabara Bay. This city is home to
the beach Ipanema. The world’s most famous favelas are found in this city. This city is overlooked by
Corcovado Mountain, which is home to the Christ the Redeemer statue. The 2016 Summer Olympics were
hosted in, for ten points, what city that, after Sao Paulo, is the second largest in Brazil?
ANSWER: Rio de Janeiro



                                                  Page 4
IGB Regionals 2019-2020                                                                            Round 4


(27) This state’s Channel Islands were once home to a species of dwarf woolly mammoths. The remains
of dire wolves and saber-toothed tigers have been found in this state’s La Brea Tar Pits. This state names
a now-extinct species of grizzly bear which is prominently featured on its flag. For ten points, name this
US State where, until 2019, tourists could visit Giant Pandas at the San Diego Zoo.
ANSWER: California

(28) This country’s city of Lalish is a holy site in the Yazidi religion. This country is home to the Lagash
site, which was home to a temple to Ninurta. The moon god Sin was the patron deity of this country’s city
of Ur, which is home to a famous Ziggurat. The Garden of Eden is may have been in this country near the
confluence of the Tigris and Euphrates. For ten points, name this country home to Mosul and Baghdad.
ANSWER: Iraq

(29) The Arctic Cordillera is an example of these structures found in Canada. Collections of these
structures are known as belts and include the Alpide Belt. These structures often create deserts through
their rain shadow. One of these structures was created by the collision of India with Asia while another
was formed by the Laramide Orogeny. For ten points, name these structures which include the Himalayas
and the Rockies.
ANSWER: mountain ranges (prompt on mountains)

(30) One city in this country is home to the Style Mile shopping area, which is centered around Argyle
Street. Another city in this country is home to the Royal Mile, which links that city’s castle to Holyrood
Palace. This country’s highlands are home to a namesake games which include the caber toss. Glasgow is
located in, for ten points, what constituent country of the UK located north of England?
ANSWER: Scotland (prompt on the UK or United Kingdom; prompt on Great Britain; do NOT accept
or prompt on England)

Tiebreaker

(1) The Lipizzaner horses are closely associated with this city’s Spanish Rider School. This city is home
to the gothic St. Stephen’s Cathedral. The Ringstrasse is a circular road that surrounds this city’s Inner
Town. The Schönbrunn Palace in this city was formerly the home of Franz Joseph and Maria Theresa and
served as the center of Habsburg power. For ten points, name this capital city of Austria.
ANSWER: Vienna




                                                  Page 5
