IGB Regionals 2019-2020                                                                      Replacements



                                       Replacements
Replacements

(1) This country’s island of Menorca is home to a famous type of lobster stew. That island is part of the
Balearic Islands, which also include Ibiza and Mallorca [ma-york-a]. This country also owns the cities of
Ceuta and Melilla on the north coast of Morocco and also administers the Canary Islands. This country
shares the Iberean peninsula with Portugal. For ten points, name this country with capital Madrid.
ANSWER: Spain

(2) This state’s cities of Eau Claire and La Crosse are home to a large population of Hmong-Americans.
This state’s Door County is a popular tourist destination and is home to the city of Sturgeon Bay. This
state’s largest city is the home of Harley Davidson and this state is home to the only community owned
football team in the U.S. For ten points, name this Midwestern state home to Green Bay and Milwaukee.
ANSWER: Wisconsin

(3) This country’s shipbuilding industry is partially based off of it’s island of Geojedo. Another island in
this country was formed by the Hallansan volcano. In addition to Jeju Island, this country is home to the
port cities of Busan and Incheon. The Tsushima Strait separates this country from Japan while the DMZ
makes this country’s northern border. For ten points, name this East Asian country with capital Seoul.
ANSWER: South Korea (accept Republic of Korea; accept Han’guk; accept Taehan-min’guk;
prompt on just Korea; do not accept North Korea; do not accept Democratic People’s Republic of Korea)

(4) One island in this state is owned by the Robinson family and is known as the Forbidden Isle. Another
island in this state is known as the Target Island and is currently uninhabited. This state is home to the
Kalaupapa Leper Colony. Cities in this state include Hilo and Pearl City. Mauna Kea is the highest point
in, for ten points, what U.S. state in the Pacific Ocean with capital Honolulu.
ANSWER: Hawaii

(5) One of these structures name Culzean was known as President Eisenhower’s “Scottish Whitehouse.”
Another of these structures was known as the “Key to England” and is located in Dover. One of these
structures in Germany named Neuschwanstein inspired Disney’s Magic Kingdom. These structures may
be surrounded by a moat. For ten points, name these defensive fortifications where kings would live.
ANSWER: castles (prompt on forts; prompt on fortresses; prompt on palaces)

(6) This landmark contains a titanium vault which houses 16 enamel plaques with biographic information
about this landmark’s creators. In response to this landmark’s construction, the Crazy Horse Memorial
was started but never completed. Gutzon Borglum was the primary architect of this landmark which is
found in South Dakota’s Black Hills. For ten points, name this monument which depicts the heads of four
presidents.
ANSWER: Mount Rushmore (prompt on the Black Hills before mentioned)




                                                  Page 1
IGB Regionals 2019-2020                                                                      Replacements


(7) This country is home to the autonomous province of Vojvodina, which lies on the Pannonian Plain.
This country’s capital was built around the Roman settlement of Singidunum. Other cities in this country
include Subotica and Novi Sad. Until 2006, this country was in a union with Montenegro. For ten points,
name this largest of the former Yugoslav republics, a Balkan country with capital Belgrade.
ANSWER: Serbia

(8) This archipelago contains the subchain the Islands of Four Mountains. This archipelago’s Buldir
Island is home to a diverse bird colony and the subchain called the Fox Islands contains this archipelago’s
highest point, Makushin Volcano. This archipelago is home to Attu and its largest island isUnimak. For
ten points, name this archipelago that stretches across the international date line from Alaska.
ANSWER: Aleutian Islands

(9) Goose Creek is a tributary of this river that drains the Loudoun Valley. One of this river’s southern
branches is sometimes known by the indigenous name of Wappocomo. Other tributaries of this river
include Antietam Creek and the Shenandoah River. Landmarks along this river include Mount Vernon
and the Arlington National Cemetery. For ten points, name this river that links Washington, DC to the
Chesapeake Bay.
ANSWER: Potomac River

(10) One of these locations, named Muirfield, is located just outside Edinburgh. Pebble Beach is one of
these locations in California. The oldest one of these locations is located at St. Andrews. These locations
are composed of parts such as fairway and the rough. Sandtraps and teeing grounds are located on, for
ten points, what these locations where a sport played with clubs and a small white ball is played.
ANSWER: golf courses




                                                  Page 2
