IGB Regionals 2019-2020                                                                           Round 2



                                            Round 2
Regulation Questions

(1) This country’s southernmost portion is St. Martin’s Island, which lies at the mouth of the Naf
River. This country’s current construction boom is fueled by the stone industry in the town of Jaflong.
This country’s principle port is located at Chittagong, which is located near this country’s border with
Myanmar. For ten points, name this low lying south Asian country with capital Dhaka.
ANSWER: Bangladesh

(2) These structures can be confirmed by the presence of breccia and shatter cones. The largest verified
example of these structures is found near Vredefort, South Africa. Mt. Mazama in Oregon holds a lake
named for being in one of these structures. Volcanic eruptions sometimes form, for ten points, what
structures whose impact variety is created when meteors or asteroids collide with the Earth?
ANSWER: craters (accept meteor/asteroid impact craters or volcanic craters)

(3) In this country, theme parks like Dreamworld and Wet’n’Wild are located in the city of Gold Coast.
Another beach town in this country is Byron Bay, which is known for its humpback whales. This country’s
other coastal towns include Darwin, Perth, and Adelaide. The Bass Strait in this country contains its city
of Melbourne. For ten points, name this land “Down Under” with capital Canberra.
ANSWER: Australia

(4) The largest example of these structures is Borobudur, located in Java, Indonesia. Reliquaries in these
structures are known as stupas. In East Asia, these structures are often accompanied by tiered towers
called Pagodas. Although originally founded as a Hindu Temple, Angkor Wat now serves as one of these
structures. For ten points, name these buildings, where practitioners of a religion founded by Siddartha
Guatama worship.
ANSWER: Buddhist temples (accept aquivalents such as Buddhist shrines; prompt on just temples)

(5) This island’s Kalimantan states are home to the Dayak people, who were oppressed by the Brooke
Raja regime on this island. This island’s north contains the state of Sabah, while the state of Sarawak
on this island is home to an orangutan reservation. The Sultanate of Brunei is located on, for ten points,
what island split between Malaysia and Indonesia, the third largest in the world?
ANSWER: Borneo

(6) The Lorelai Rock sits on the shores of this river, where a beautiful maiden was said to lure sailors
into crashing their ships. The Neckar and Main rivers flow into this other river, which flows past the city
of Cologne. This river forms the borders between Liechtenstein, Austria, and Switzerland. For ten points,
name this European river that flows through Germany on its way to the North Sea.
ANSWER: The Rhine




                                                  Page 1
IGB Regionals 2019-2020                                                                            Round 2


(7) This mountain’s north and south summits were renamed in honor of Winston Churchill in 1965.
The Kahiltna Glacier originated from this mountain. William Dickey is credited with discovering this
mountain, whose name translated from Athabaskan as “the High One.” For ten points, identify this
Alaskan mountain, formerly named for an American President, the tallest in North America.
ANSWER: Denali (accept Mt. McKinley)

(8) This archipelago’s largest volcano is located on Fernandina Island. The largest island in this
archipelago is Isabella. This archipelago is the only native habitat of the flightless cormorant and the
marine iguana. The Voyage of the Beagle was written about a trip to this archipelago. For ten points,
name this archipelago off the coast of Ecuador, where Charles Darwin studied its tortoises and finches.
ANSWER: Galapagos Islands

(9) This country is home to a vegetarian dish eaten by monks called Buddha’s delight. Another dish
from this country is prepared by aging an egg in a mixture of clay, ash, salt, and quicklime. In addition
to century eggs, this country is home to a pastry filled with red bean paste that is eaten during the
Mid-Autumn festival. Mooncakes are from, for ten points, what country whose other dishes include chow
mein?
ANSWER: China (accept Zhongguo; accept People’s Republic of China; do not accept the Republic of
China)

(10) This desert is home to the Dohone Spur, which contains the mountain Bikku Bitti. The shield
volcano Emi Koussi is the highest peak found in this desert. Both of those mountains are found in this
desert’s Tibesti Mountains. This desert is home to the Tuareg people. This desert extends from the Sahel
to the Mediterranean Sea. For ten points, name this largest desert in the world, located in northern Africa.
ANSWER: Sahara Desert

(11) Walter Pitman proposed that this sea may have been experienced a namesake deluge at the end of
the last ice age, possibly explaining the story of Noah’s Arc. This sea is connected by the Straits of Kerch
to the Sea of Azov and the Bosporus separates this sea from the Mediterranean. Crimea is surrounded by
this sea. For ten points, name this colorfully named sea between Europe and Asia.
ANSWER: Black Sea

(12) The French owned islands of Guadeloupe and Martinique are in this body of water. The city of
Basseterre serves as the capital of one island country in this body of water. Another island country in this
body of water previously had its capital at Port Royal before it was relocated to Kingston. For ten points,
what large North American sea is home to Jamaica and the Dominican Republic.
ANSWER: Caribbean Sea




                                                  Page 2
IGB Regionals 2019-2020                                                                           Round 2


(13) This city contains the mouth of the Parramatta River, which is crossed by the sandstone Lennox
Bridge. This city’s Jackson Harbor is home to a steel arch bridge that is sometimes called the Coathanger.
John Utzon designed an opera house in this city that consists of a series of concrete shells. Botany Bay is
located in, for ten points, what capital of New South Wales, the largest city in Australia?
ANSWER: Sydney

(14) This region is home to the city of Kyzyl, which serves as the capital for the Tuvan Republic.This
region is home to the only non-Israel territory to be officially Jewish, the Jewish Autonomous Oblast.
Lake Baikal is located in this region, which stretches from the Urals to the Pacific Ocean. Many Gulags
were operated in, for ten points, what massive and cold portion of eastern Russia?
ANSWER: Siberia (prompt on Russia; prompt on Eastern Russia; prompt on Asiatic Russia)

(15) This island is home to the Taroko Gorge, which gets its name from one of this island’s many
Austronesian languages. During Japanese occupation, this island’s Sun Moon Lake was flooded, nearly
destroying Lalu Island. This island is home to the Yushan mountains. This island was formerly known as
Formosa and is claimed by China to be a renegade province. For ten points, name this island governed
from Taipei.
ANSWER: Taiwan (accept Formosa before mentioned)

(16) Along with centavo coins, this country’s currency replaced the sucre notes as legal tender in Ecuador.
This country’s currency also replaced the Salvadoran colón. In foreign exchange markets, this country’s
currency is called the Greenback. Coins in this country contain the phrase E pluribus unum. For ten
points, name this country, whose quarter and one dollar bill depict George Washington.
ANSWER: United States of America (accept either underlined phrase; accept USA)

(17) This river originates near Ubundu at the Boyoma Falls. The fluvial lake Pool Malebo is located on
this river, which is fed by the Lualaba River. This river’s other inflows include the Kasai and Chambeshi
Rivers. The Livingstone falls are located on this river. The cities of Kinshasa and Brazzaville lie on this
river’s banks. For ten points, name this second largest river in Africa, which names two countries.
ANSWER: Congo River (or Zaire River)

(18) This country’s province of Yungay is home to its highest point, the mountain Huascaran. This
country is home to a series of geoglyphs depicting animals such as monkeys and spiders called the Nazca
Lines. With Bolivia, this country shares the world’s highest navigable lake, Lake Titicaca. The Incan site
of Machu Picchu is located in, for ten points, what South American country with capital Lima?
ANSWER: Peru

(19) This province contains the Laurentian Mountains which is the source of the Montmorency and St.
Maurice rivers. The northern part of this province contains the Ungava Peninsula which juts into Hudson
Bay. The capital of this province is located in the Plains of Abraham. The city of Montreal is located in,
for ten points, what French speaking Canadian province?
ANSWER: Quebec



                                                  Page 3
IGB Regionals 2019-2020                                                                        Round 2


(20) This country’s Tooth Hole Cave is found on the Gower Peninsula. Castles in this country include
Harlech Castle and Conwy Castle, both of which were controlled by Charles I’s forces. Offa’s Dyke
separates this country from its eastern neighbor. Cities in this country include Newport and Swansea.
For ten points, name this constituent country of the U.K. with capital Cardiff, the western neighbor of
England.
ANSWER: Wales (or Cymru; prompt on United Kingdom or U.K. or Great Britain, or Britain; do NOT
accept or prompt on “England”)

(21) In September of 2019, one of these events submerged Grand Marsh Airport while destroying much
of the Abaco Islands. Donald Trump altered a map of that one of these events with a Sharpie to depict it
impacting Alabama. In addition to Dorian, in 2017, one of these events named Maria destroyed much of
Puerto Rico. For ten points, name these large ocean storms that are stronger than tropical storms.
ANSWER: hurricanes (prompt on floods; prompt on tropical storms or cyclones; prompt on storms or
similar answers)

(22) This city is home to the Plaza del Zocalo which is located blocks away from the Templo Mayor. A
former indigenous stronghold in this city was converted into Chapultepec [Cha-pull-tay-pec] Castle. This
city is built on what was formerly Lake Texcoco and the ruins of Tenochtitlan [Tee-nach-teet-lan], the
capital of the Aztecs. For ten points, name this capital of the southern neighbor of the United States.
ANSWER: Mexico City (accept Ciudad de Mexico)

(23) This river starts near the city of Jinja, which is home to the Owen Falls Dam. Lake Kyoga and Lake
Albert lie along this river, which are home to many floating islands. The Aswan High dam was built along
this river, whose other major cities include Juba and Khartoum. For ten points, name this African river,
the longest in the world, the center of ancient Egyptian civilization.
ANSWER: Nile River (accept Victorian Nile; accept White Nile)

(24) The region of Pieria lies near the foot of this mountain and was the traditional home of the Muses.
This mountain’s highest peak is Mytikas. According to Herodatus, this mountain was located in northern
Thessaly. In mythology, this mountain was the home of the cupbearers Hebe and Ganymede. For ten
points, name this highest mountain in Greece, where the Greek gods were believed to live.
ANSWER: Mt. Olympus

(25) This country’s Islands of Pate and Lamu are home to mixed race descendents of the Zheng He’s fleet.
This country is home to the Luo and Kikuyu people, who venerate this country’s namesake mountain.
That mountain is the second tallest in Africa after Kilimanjaro. This country’s main port and second
largest city is Mombasa. For ten points, name this east African country with capital at Nairobi.
ANSWER: Kenya




                                                Page 4
IGB Regionals 2019-2020                                                                             Round 2


(26) This country’s highest peak is Mount Damavand, which located in the Alborz Mountains along
this country’s northern border. This country’s Dasht-e Kavir desert is the only remaining habitat of the
Asiatic cheetah. The Zagros mountains form this country’s western border with Iraq. This country’s
western shore is made up by the Persian Gulf. For ten points, name this country with capital Tehran.
ANSWER: Iran

(27) In 1812, the flow of this river was briefly reverse by an earthquake along the New Madrid Fault. This
river starts at Lake Itasca in Minnesota and flows south past cities such as Memphis and Baton Rouge.
This river meets the Missouri River just north of St. Louis. For ten points, name this river that empties
into the Gulf of Mexico at New Orleans, the longest river in the United States.
ANSWER: Mississippi River

(28) One portion of this structure discontinuously runs the length of the Hexi Corridor. Another portion
of this structure was legendarily made out 99,999 bricks with one brick left over on top of a gate. In
addition to the Jiayu Pass, this structure also contains the Shanhai Pass. Invading Xiongnu forces were the
impetus for the construction of, for ten points, what extremely long wall in Asia which can not actually
be seen from space?
ANSWER: Great Wall of China (accept Wanli Changcheng)

(29) This country’s prehistoric Mal’ta-Buret’ produced four ivory “Venus” statues. This country is home
to Europe’s highest mountain, Mount Elbrus. This country’s major lakes include Lake Onega and Lake
Ladoga, which are linked by canals to the Baltic Sea. St. Petersburg is located in, for ten points, what
largest country in the world which is governed from Moscow?
ANSWER: Russia (accept Russian Federation)

(30) This city is home to the Copp’s Hill Burying Ground, the final resting place of Increase and Cotton
Mather. The Charlestown Navy Yard and Fanueli Hall are part of this city’s National Historical Park. In
1951, leaders in this city created the Freedom Trail to link historical sites like the Paul Revere House. For
ten points, name this historic New England city, the largest in Massachusetts.
ANSWER: Boston

Tiebreaker

(1) The philosopher Empedocles was born on this island’s city of Akrasa and supposedly died by throwing
himself into a volcano on this island. That volcano on this island was also held to be where Typhon was
captured and the location of Hephaestus’ forge. That volcano is Mt. Etna. This island is home to Syracuse
and Palermo. For ten points, name this Italian island, the largest in the Mediterranean.
ANSWER: Sicily




                                                   Page 5
