                 2020 International Geography Bee Middle School Nationals
                                          Round 3

1. This city is the largest by population in the U.S. that is not home to an MLB, NFL, NBA, or NHL team, and
   Dell is headquartered in its suburb of Round Rock. The longest-running music series in American TV history,
   which aired on PBS, helped give this city the moniker “Live Music Capital of the World;” more recently it is
   also known for hosting the South by Southwest festival. A slogan adopted by a Business Alliance in this city
   encourages its residents to “Keep” it “Weird.” For the point, name this capital of Texas.
   ANSWER: Austin

2. In this African nation, the Charles de Gaulle Bridge is one of the main causeways traversing the Ebrie Lagoon, a
   narrow waterway that separates cities like Grand Bassam from the Atlantic Ocean. The Montagnes District of
   this nation includes the protected rainforests of Taï National Park, where the Cavalla river forms this nation’s
   border with Liberia. Felix Houphouet-Boigny moved the capital of this nation from the city of Abidjan to his
   hometown of Yamoussoukro. For the point, name this West African country named for a resource taken from
   Elephant tusks.
   ANSWER: Republic of Côte d’Ivoire [or Ivory Coast]



3. The MOSE project is a system designed to control frequent flooding in one arm of this body of water. The
   Peljesac (PELL-yeh-sahtz) Peninsula encloses the Bay of Mali Ston in this body of water, whose Klek Peninsula
   is disputed between two countries. This body of water’s tidal peaks lead to a phenomenon called acqua alta, and
   it also surrounds the islands of Rab, Pag, and Vis. The town of Neum is one country’s only town on this sea,
   whose other major ports include Split, Trieste, and Dubrovnik. For the point, name this European sea that
   separates the Italian and Balkan Peninsulas.
   ANSWER: Adriatic Sea

4. The pura complex of Besakih is an important religious site on this island’s active Mount Agung volcano.
   Cockfighting on this island was the subject of a Clifford Geertz study on “deep play.” Visitors can feed bananas
   to this island’s long-tailed monkeys in the Ubud Monkey Forest, and its resort towns include Jimbaran, Kuta,
   and Nusa Dua. This island is governed as its own province from the city of Denpasar. This island is the
   westernmost of the Lesser Sunda Islands and is directly east of Java. For the point, name this Hindu-majority
   Indonesian island, a popular tourist destination.
   ANSWER: Bali

5. An exclave of this country is often given a name translated as “head of the mountains,” while Masirah, a large
   but mostly deserted island, is off its south coast. One exclave of this country is home to the Kuzmaris and has
   capital Khasab, and governs the separate exclave of Madha. Jebel Shams, the tallest mountain in this country, is
   in the Al Hajar Mountains, which are often named for this country. Salalah is the capital of this country’s
   Dhofar Province. Musandam belongs to, for the point, what Arabian Peninsula country with capital Muscat?
   ANSWER: Sultanate of Oman

6. This city's district of Steglitz [SHTAY-glitz] was referred to as “steht nichts” [SHTAYT-nix] after it was
   heavily damaged by bombing raids. Yevgeny Khaldei became famous for waving a flag on a building in this
   city that later stood next to an international border for over three decades. Troops fleeing encirclement in this
   city reached Spandau after sneaking through the Tiergarten. This city's river Spree [SHPRAY] was sneered at by
   invading troops who compared its puny width to that of the Volga. For the point, name this city that was called
   “a mountain of rubble next to Potsdam” after it fell to the Soviets in 1945.
   ANSWER: Berlin
7. Chetwood Architects are currently planning this city’s kilometer-high Phoenix Towers, which are funded by the
   Huang Family. This city is near the potential site of the semi-legendary Battle of the Red Cliffs, and is home to
   the Sword of Goujian, a 2,500 year old sword in pristine condition found in a Zhang River Reservoir. The Snake
   and Turtle Hills are connected by rail across this city’s Yangtze River Bridge. The Han River reaches the
   Yangtze at this city, the capital of Hubei. For the point, name this city, where, in 2019, the COVID-19 pandemic
   began.
   ANSWER: Wuhan

8. The Tulbul Project is a controversial dam on Wular Lake in this region. Aksai Chin is a deserted part of this
   geographic region, whose Saltoro Mountains are south of the Baltoro Glacier. Leh and Kargil are the capitals of
   a new union territory in this region. The western portion of this region is administered from a city near the
   confluence of the Neelam and the Jhelum Rivers, Muzaffarabad, while its southern and eastern portion is
   governed from Srinagar. For the point, name this region that, along with Jammu, is the subject of a territorial
   dispute between China, Pakistan, and India.
   ANSWER: Kashmir [accept Jammu and Kashmir or Kashmir and Jammu]

9. In Mormonism, this non-water liquid is blessed and then used to anoint the sick and perform initiation practices.
   50% of the world’s supply of this product is produced in Spain, with much of that coming from in or near the
   city of Jaén (hha-ENN). Those Spanish-produced barrels of this product are often fraudulently mixed with
   alternate forms of it in Italy before labelling it as Italian for sale. During the Bronze Age, this product was made
   by placing its namesake fruit between two mats and then pressing it. For the point, name this common vegetable
   oil, made from a fruit common in the Mediterranean region.
   ANSWER: olive oil [accept extra virgin olive oil]



10. In 2013, over 900 dolphins were killed in an annual dolphin hunt held off this country’s island of Malaita. This
    country has attempted to drive up tourism in Munda by introducing direct flights from Brisbane, and its city of
    Gizo is popular for surfing and diving. This country’s New Georgia Islands contain the uninhabited Kennedy
    Island, where U.S. president John F. Kennedy was stranded during World War II. Guadalcanal was the site of a
    major World War II campaign in what is now, for the point, what Melanesian country with capital Honiara?
    ANSWER: Solomon Islands



11. This river forms the western border of the Skylands Region. Upper tributaries of this river include the
    Lackawaxen and the Neversink, the latter of which enters this river at Port Jervis. This river crosses the
    Kittatinny Ridge at its namesake water gap shortly before meeting the Lehigh River. Bridges across this river
    includes ones named for Betsy Ross and Ben Franklin and a span that bears the slogan “Trenton Makes, the
    World Takes.” For the point, name this American river which flows past Philadelphia and Wilmington before
    emptying into the Atlantic beside its namesake state.
    ANSWER: Delaware River



12. A modern “fire festival” celebration of the Beltane holiday is held annually on this city’s Calton Hill. This city's
    oldest building is St. Margaret’s Chapel, which is also the oldest portion of this city's namesake castle to survive
    the 1573 Lang siege. This city’s “Fringe” is the largest art festival in the world, and its primary river is the
    Water of Leith, which empties into the Firth of Forth. This city hosts a parliament frequently called the
    Holyrood, which is also the name of the British Monarch's official residence in this city. For the point, name this
    capital of Scotland, which is less populous than Glasgow.
    ANSWER: Edinburgh
13. The singer Jalala won the 2016 Eurovision Song Contest for “1944,” a song about deportations from this region.
    Gurzuf and Alupka are towns in this region’s “riviera.” This peninsula's namesake mountains include its highest
    point, Roman-Kosh, and it is connected to the mainland by the Isthmus of Perekop. The longest bridge in
    Europe is being built east of this peninsula across the Kerch Strait. This peninsula is governed from Simferopol
    and includes the port of Sevastopol. For the point, name this peninsula located between the Sea of Azov and the
    Black Sea, the subject of an ongoing territorial dispute between Russia and Ukraine.
    ANSWER: Crimean Peninsula

14. Santiago Calatrava designed this city’s single-masted “Woman’s Bridge,” which is in its Puerto Madero district.
    This city’s Kavanagh Building was the tallest in Latin America when it was built in 1936. A 235-foot tall
    obelisk stands at the intersection of this city’s Corrientes Avenue and the Avienda 9 de Julio. This city’s Plaza
    de Mayo is home to a presidential mansion known as the Pink House, and residents of this city are known by the
    name porteños. Montevideo is across the Rio de la Plata from, for the point, what capital of Argentina?
    ANSWER: Buenos Aires

15. This country has the highest level of forest cover in the world, and its primary creole language is Sranan Tongo.
    Explorer Johan Eilerts de Haan died leading an expedition into this nation’s interior; that expedition began by
    following the course of the Courantyne River. This nation’s namesake river, whose source is in the Wilhelmina
    Mountains, terminates in a capital with districts like Fort Zeelandia and Nieuw Amsterdam. This country
    disputes the Tigri Area with Guyana. The colony of Dutch Guiana became, for the point, what country with
    capital Paramaribo?
    ANSWER: Republic of Suriname



16. This city’s “Green Plan” protects much of its remaining wildlife in the Sungei Buloh Wetland Reserve and the
    Bukit Timah Nature Reserve. The “Flyer” is a 165-meter Ferris wheel in this city, where Orchard Road is a
    popular shopping district and whose tourism board developed its Merlion mascot. This city’s strict vandalism
    laws include heavy fines for littering and chewing gum, while its Gardens by the Bay and Marina Bay Sands are
    popular destinations for tourists. The Strait of Johor separates Malaysia from, for the point, what Asian city-
    state?
    ANSWER: Republic of Singapore

17. Politician Darren Chester speculated that debris found on this archipelago’s Kojana Island may have been from
    the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370. On this archipelago, the majority of the population of Pemba self-
    report themselves as descendants of Shirazi royalty that emigrated from Iran. In the historic capital of this
    archipelago’s namesake island, the Forodhani Gardens are overlooked by the Old Fort and the House of
    Wonders. The crumbling mansion of the slave trader Tippu Tip, found in Kelele Square, sits in the center of
    Stone Town on the largest island of this archipelago. For the point, name this archipelago off the coast of
    mainland Tanzania.
    ANSWER: Zanzibar Archipelago

18. Architect Joseph Zappia was convicted for fraud that took place during the construction of buildings for one of
    these locations in Montreal; those pyramid-shaped towers were criticized for their exposed walkways. The first
    of these facilities was built in Baldwin Hills, CA in 1932, and included a hospital and post office. UCLA
    buildings have been twice used as one of these facilities, at which a record number of condoms were distributed
    to protect against the Zika Virus in 2016. In 1972, the Munich massacre took place in one of these locations
    after nine Israelis were taken hostage by Black September. For the point, name these facilities that house
    athletes every four years.
    ANSWER: Olympic villages
19. This state’s tallest mountain is named for one of its senators who served in its early years of statehood from
    1907-1940, William Borah. In this state, Evel Knievel used the Skycycle X-2 to attempt a canyon jump near its
    city of Twin Falls. Ernest Hemingway killed himself near the Sun Valley ski resort in this state, whose
    mountains include the Sawtooth Range. The largest yogurt factory in the world was opened by Chobani in this
    state, in whose capital city ice cream is served inside a baked potato. The Snake River runs through, for the
    point, what state with cities such as Pocatello, Coeur d’Alene, and Boise?
    ANSWER: Idaho

20. The bike-sharing startup BDOOD plans on offering up to 250,000 dockless bikes in this city. Leila Araghian
    designed this city’s Tabiat Bridge, which connects the preserves of Taleghani Park and Abo-Atash Park. The
    circular Ebrat Museum in this city once served as a political prison, and its Azadi Tower was built to celebrate
    the 2500th anniversary of this city’s country. The government of that country has considered moving its capital
    from this city to another city, such as Shahroud, Semnan, or Isfahan. For the point, name this capital of Iran.
    ANSWER: Tehran



21. Glaciers cover 99.3% of this archipelago’s island of Kvitoya. This archipelago’s settlement of Barentsburg,
    home mostly to Russians, is its second-most populous and has the northernmost diplomatic mission in the
    world. Ground was broken in 2006 for a namesake vault in this archipelago that now contains over 1,000,000
    seed samples. People traveling outside the largest town in this archipelago, Longyearbyen, are required to bring
    rifles with them in case of polar bear attacks. Spitsbergen is in, for the point, what Arctic archipelago controlled
    by Norway?
    ANSWER: Svalbard

22. In this city, the Arabic term “zabbaleen” is used to describe informal garbage collectors who make a living by
    selling recyclable waste. The Gate of the Barbers and the El-Taibarsiya Medrese are part of this city’s Al-Azhar
    Mosque, while its Hanging Church, originally built along the walls of the confusingly-named Babylon Fortress,
    is over 1300 years old. The Zamalek District and this city’s Gezira Island can be accessed by its 6th October
    Bridge. This city is home to the Khan el-Khalili market place and the Coptic Museum, while its metro stops at
    the Giza pyramid complex. For the point, name this capital of Egypt.
    ANSWER: Cairo

23. Prior to contact with Europeans, this was the largest island where the inhabitants built houses using latte [LOT-
    tee] stones. The brown tree snake has decimated the bird life of this island, and threatens the islands to its north,
    which include Rota. A Japanese soldier held out until 1972 in this island’s interior, avoiding its Chamorro
    people, who now form a plurality among the over 100,000 people who live there. This island, which is
    controlled by the U.S., forms a separate territory from Tinian and Saipan, which are also part of the Marianas.
    For the point, name this unincorporated U.S. territory in the Western Pacific, with capital at Hagåtña.
    ANSWER: Guam

24. A large number of immigrants from this country live in the city of Shashamane, while groups of escaped slaves
    from this country founded Cudjoe’s Town. This country is home to a terraced series of waterfalls named for
    Dunn's River, which is located outside the city of Ocho Rios, and its region of Cockpit Country includes steep
    karst topography. Coffee grown in this country’s parishes of Saint Andrew and Saint Mary can be given the
    Blue Mountain label. For the point, name this Caribbean island nation with cities Port Royal and Kingston.
    ANSWER: Jamaica
25. The term Haratin refers to a group of people who were once targeted for this practice, and now often live in
   segregated ghettoes. The U.S. blocked importation of black diamonds from Zimbabwe due to allegations of this
   practice, which had a resurgence in Libya following the overthrow of Muammar Gaddafi. The kafala system of
   sponsorship in the United Arab Emirates has led to instances of this practice, which can also happen through
   debt bondage in India and its more traditional “chattel” form in Mauritania, which was only outlawed in 1981,
   though it remains common there. For the point, name this practice of forced labor.
   ANSWER: modern slavery [acccept forced labor or equivalents]

26. Pane [PAH-nay] carasau is a traditional flatbread from this island. The Bastione (bahs-tee-OH-nay) di Saint
   Remy is a landmark in the capital of this island, whose city of Carbonia is known for its rationalist architecture.
   Neptune’s Grotto is a sea cave near Alghero on this island, and this island’s highest point is the Punta La
   Marmora, which lies in the Gennargentu Range. The nuraghe (noo-RAH-gay) are large megalithic stone towers
   on this island, which is bordered to the north by the Strait of Bonifacio. Cagliari is the capital of, for the point,
   which Italian island south of Corsica?
   ANSWER: Sardinia

27. This trip was first announced at a Fridays for Future strike in Vienna. Critics of this trip pointed out that Nikki
    Henderson flew from England to participate in its return voyage. The German sailor Boris Hermann led this trip
    aboard the yacht Malizia II, and it was followed by a speech stating “How dare you! You have stolen my dreams
    and my childhood” and “we are in the beginning of a mass extinction.” For the point, name this trip undertaken
    by a Swedish climate activist to participate in the 2019 UN Climate Action Summit.
    ANSWER: Greta Thunberg’s TransAtlantic voyage

28. The lowest part of this river passes through an agricultural valley known in Arabic as the ghor. The Hauran
   Plateau is linked to this river’s drainage basin by the Yarmouk River. The Allon Plan and a 2020 peace plan
   both involve the annexation of much of the western bank of this river. This river's northern course passes
   through the Hula Valley after receiving water from Mt. Hermon, and most of its course runs from the Sea of
   Galilee to the Dead Sea. For the point, name this Middle Eastern river that separates the West Bank from a
   namesake country.
   ANSWER: Jordan River

29. A carved jaguar’s head was added to the doors of a church in this city that includes a Last Supper in which the
    disciples eat either guinea pig or chinchilla. The Cathedral Basilica of the Assumption of the Virgin was built on
    the ruins of the Kiswarkancha in this city, whose citadel of Sacsayhuaman was originally built by the Killke
    Culture. An airport in Chinchero, southeast of Ollantaytambo in the Sacred Valley, would divert tourist traffic
    from this city’s airport, currently the closest to Machu Picchu. For the point, name this historic capital of Peru
    and the Incan Empire.
    ANSWER: Cusco [or Cuzco]

30. This city’s Foreshore Freeway Bridge has been unfinished since 1977. The French barge BOS 400 was wrecked
    near this city’s tiny island of Duiker, which is near its Hout Bay. Muizenberg, Fish Hoek, and Newlands,
    suburbs of this city, are along the route of the Two Oceans Marathon. This city’s namesake peninsula is west of
    False Bay, which itself is northwest of Cape Agulhas. This city’s “city bowl” is below Signal Hill, Lion’s Head,
    and Table Mountain. For the point, name this South African city on the Cape of Good Hope.
    ANSWER: Cape Town
EXTRA TOSSUP:

The government of Quang Ninh has been relocating families who live in this body of water. Islands in this body
of water have been named for their resemblances to roofs, chickens, monkeys, and elephants, while its name
translates to “descending dragon.” About 1,600 people live in floating villages in this bay, which is northeast of
the Cát Bà Archipelago, and southwest of Bai Tu Long Bay, off the coast of its namesake city. For the point,
name this Vietnamese bay filled with over a thousand mountainous karst islands.
ANSWER: Ha Long Bay
