                    2020 International Geography Bee Elementary Nationals
                                           Round 1

1. On this island, the “black line” attempted to force natives out of the Forestier Peninsula, and they were later
   forced to move to Flinders Island. Convict ballads were often sung by those who were forced to resettle at Port
   Arthur on this island, which was originally known as Van Diemen’s Land. Hobart is the capital of, for the point,
   what island state of Australia?
   ANSWER: Tasmania

2. This inland desert is home to various languages that use clicks, including the Tuu languages spoken by the San
   people. The Etosha and Makgadikgadi are salt pans in this desert. The Okavango River flows through this desert
   in an endorheic basin, which has no outlet to either the Indian or Atlantic Oceans. For the point, name this desert
   found in Namibia, Botswana, and South Africa.
   ANSWER: Kalahari Desert

3. Abdullah Öcallan [OH-jeh-lahn], a leader of this ethnic group's PKK militia, was for a time the only person kept
   on a prison island in the Sea of Marmara. A militia composed of people with this ethnicity, the Pesh Merga,
   fought alongside US troops in 2003. Saddam Hussein gassed members of this ethnic group in the town of
   Halabja towards the end of the Iran-Iraq War. The population of Erbil primarily consists of, for the point, what
   Middle Eastern minority group from Turkey, Syria, Iran, and Iraq?
   ANSWER: Kurds [or Kurdish]

4. Early Canadian fur trappers supposedly mixed the blood of this animal with red wine and whiskey, leading to
   the creation of a namesake cocktail served at the Quebec Winter Carnival. One of these animals is depicted on
   the back of the Canadian quarter-dollar, and they are hunted by many Inuit in the Hudson Bay region. Siidas are
   herding communities of Sami people who use these animals to pull pulk sleds and for meat. For the point, name
   this type of deer.
   ANSWER: reindeer [or caribou; prompt on deer]

5. This city, which bills itself as America's Farm-to-Fork Capital, is home to the headquarters of Blue Diamond
   almonds. An interstate separates the “Old” section of this city from its revitalized downtown, the site of the
   Golden 1 Center. This city is at the confluence of the American River and its namesake river; the former of
   those passes the suburbs of Rancho Cordova and Folsom and the latter is crossed by Tower Bridge and meets
   the San Joaquin River before feeding San Francisco Bay. For the point, name this central California city, the
   capital of the state.
   ANSWER: Sacramento, California

6. The D-Day scenes of Saving Private Ryan were filmed at Ballinesker Beach in this country. Other filming
   locations in this country include Trim Castle, which filled in for York in Braveheart, the Cliffs of Moher, and
   the former monastic settlement of Skellig Michael, an extension of McGillicuddy’s Reeks. The “gift of gab” can
   be obtained by kissing the Blarney Stone in this country, whose southwest includes Killarney National Park in
   County Kerry. The Shannon is the longest river of, for the point, what country with cities Cork, Limerick, and
   Dublin?
   ANSWER: Republic of Ireland

7. A London tube stop, which once served as a bomb shelter, is named for (this animal) and Castle. A set of
   papyrus manuscripts from an island named for these animals indicate that a population of Jewish mercenaries
   guarded the Egyptian border at Aswan. Seattle’s Woodland Park Zoo funds a program to protect these animals
   in the Tarangire region of Tanzania, and they can controversially be punished with the use of an ankus. In
   Nepal, forest rangers ride, for the point, what pachyderm, from whom ivory is often acquired?
   ANSWER: elephants [accept African elephants or Asian elephants]
8. The Ironstone Plateau is in the Bahr el Ghazal region in the northwest of this country, which disputes the Abyei
   region with its northern neighbor, and the Ilemi Triangle with Kenya. The Sobat river is an important waterway
   in this country, and much of its wildlife is reliant on the Sudd swamp. Dinka and Nuer are the primary ethnic
   groups, and Juba is the capital of, for the point, what country formally established in 2011, which is the world’s
   newest country?
   ANSWER: Republic of South Sudan

9. One city of this name has an airport named for Chuck Yeager and is located along the Kanawha River. Another
   city of this name is home to the Arthur Ravenel Jr. Bridge and its City Market, a former slave market, is part of
   a large historic district near the confluence of the Ashley and Cooper Rivers. Sites near the center of that city
   with this name include Fort Moultrie and Fort Sumter. For the point, give this name shared by a historic port
   city in South Carolina and the capital of West Virginia.
   ANSWER: Charleston

10. This city’s Coal Harbour is home to much of this city’s growing collection of glass-clad residential skyscrapers,
    and along with the West End neighborhood it borders Stanley Park. A concrete factory and a public market
    share space on Granville Island, a peninsula along False Creek in this city, and this city is located just north of
    the mouth of the Fraser River on its country’s west coast. For the point, name this Canadian city, the most
    populous in British Columbia, which shares its name with an island that it is not located on.
    ANSWER: Vancouver, British Columbia [do not accept or anti-prompt on Vancouver Island]

11. This city’s namesake cathedral, reminiscent of a crown with a hyperboloid shape, has 3-meter tall statues of the
    four evangelists. The Monumental Axis is a main avenue in this city, and its landmarks include the Cultural
    Complex of the Republic and the Itamaraty Palace, also known as the Palace of the Arches. This city, once
    known as the Plano Piloto, includes the Palácio da Alvorada. Paranoá Lake is crossed by Juscelino Kubitschek
    Bridge in, for the point, what city planned by Lucio Costa and with many buildings designed by Oscar
    Niemeyer, the capital of Brazil?
    ANSWER: Brasilia

12. The Plaza Mexico is the largest structure for this activity in the world. Banderillas are flags stuck onto the
    shoulders during this activity, during which the ornate capote de paseo, part of the “suit of lights,” is replaced
    by the traditional red muleta. During this activity, picadors ride on blindfolded and padded horses, and are
    armed with lances. At the Festival of San Fermin, participants in these events are released from their pens and
    “run” through the streets of Pamplona. For the point, name this traditional Spanish sport where a matador kills a
    certain farm animal.
    ANSWER: bullfighting [accept Spanish bullfighting; accept word forms like bullfights; do not prompt on
    “Running of the Bulls” or similar responses]

13. Knight Point is a state park on North Hero Island in this lake, whose shores also include an “Earth Clock” where
    a person serves as the gnomon of a sundial, and the ECHO science museum, also known as the Leahy Center.
    Grand Isle is the largest island in this lake, from which the Richelieu River rises before draining into the St.
    Lawrence. Benedict Arnold lost the Battle of Valcour Island on this lake, which was defended by Fort
    Ticonderoga. Plattsburgh and Burlington are on, for the point, what lake on the border of New York and
    Vermont?
    ANSWER: Lake Champlain
14. The Malwiya Tower is part of a baked-brick one of these buildings commissioned by Abbasid Caliph Al-
    Muttawakil in Samarra. Jasper, onyx, and porphyry were used for columns connected by red and white arches in
    a former one of these buildings in Cordoba, Spain, and the tomb of Enrico Dandolo was destroyed in the
    conversion of a Byzantine cathedral to one of these buildings in Istanbul. King Hussein of Jordan funded the
    restoration of a gold-plated dome for another of these buildings in Jerusalem. For the point, name these
    buildings, which include a “Great” one surrounding the Kaaba in Mecca.
    ANSWER: mosques

15. Protected lands in this country include Ranomafana National Park, part of the UNESCO site, Rainforests of the
    Atisanana. However, the removal of precious woods from national parks of this country has been allowed by its
    President, Andry Rajoelina. The fossa is a cat-like predator endemic to this island, and its extinct species include
    the elephant bird and the giant aye-aye [eye eye]. Deforestation is affecting the habitat of the ring-tailed lemur
    on, for the point, what island with capital Antananarivo?
    ANSWER: Republic of Madagascar

16. Parkersburg, Huntington, and Owensboro lie on this river, while Cairo [KAY-roe], one of the most
    economically depressed cities in the U.S., stands at its end. Slaves traveling the Underground Railroad
    sometimes referred to this river as the river Jordan, as it marked the boundary of slave states and free states. The
    Monongahela and Allegheny Rivers meet in Pittsburgh to form, for the point, what river, which forms the
    northern border of Kentucky?
    ANSWER: Ohio River

17. A product made from this crop, sugar, cinnamon, and vanilla, atole [ah-toh-lee], is often drunk on the Day of the
    Dead in Mexico. This crop is also used in the American version of hasty pudding, Chinese wotou, and is
    fermented to make bourbon whiskey. This crop, a domesticated form of teosinte, is used to form masa flour, and
    it comes in dent, flint, and sweet varieties. Squash and climbing beans were built around this plant in a system
    known as the “three sisters.” For the point, name this most-grown crop in the Americas.
    ANSWER: corn [or maize]

18. A popular folklore custom holds that pork should never be brought across this island’s Pali Lookout, which can
    be accessed by Route 61 and provides a wide view of this island’s Windward side. Other remote sites on this
    island include Kualoa Ranch and Turtle Bay, both of which are common spots for filming. Surfers flock to
    Sunset Beach, Waimea Bay, and Ehukai Beach, the site of the Banzai Pipeline, on this island’s north shore,
    while tourists often visit its Diamond Head Crater and Waikiki Beach. For the point, name this most populous
    Hawaiian island, which includes Pearl Harbor and the city of Honolulu.
    ANSWER: Oahu

19. Outside this city, British Army Officer Mark Cubbon built a complex of summer homes in the Nandi Hills. Tipu
    Sultan finished this city’s Lal Bagh, a botanical garden that is home to non-native species like the African
    Baobab and American Cypress. The waning Mughal Empire sold this city for 300,000 rupees to Mysore’s ruler,
    Chikka Devaraja. The cultural center of Kannada speakers is this capital of Karnataka. For the point, name this
    so-called “Silicon Valley of India.”
    ANSWER: Bangalore [or Bengaluru]

20. In a city in this region, the Corteo Storico precedes a horse race around the Piazza del Campo. An ancient
    empire’s centers of marble production were in this region’s cities of Luna and Carrara. An archipelago named
    for this region includes the first site of Napoleon’s exile, Elba, and the island of Montecristo. This region
    includes multiple buildings named Il Duomo, including one in Siena and another designed by Brunelleschi. For
    the point, name this region of Italy with capital Florence.
    ANSWER: Tuscany (or Toscana, prompt on Italy until mention)
21. Flowstones are found in these places, many of which are in Gunung Mulu National Park in Sarawak. Thirteen
    people were saved from one of these locations in the Doi Nang Non at Tham [TOM] Luang in 2018, though two
    divers trying to rescue them died. These locations are often found in karst topography where water has eroded
    limestone deposits, thus creating gaps in the rock. For the point, name these locations, often home to flocks of
    bats, as well as prehistoric humans who in Lascaux [lass-COE], France created notable artwork on their walls.
    ANSWER: caves

22. A bridge across this river had many “love locks” placed by tourists until they were all taken down in 2015. Four
    sets of locks of a different kind keep this river navigable near its confluence with the Oise (WAHZ) at Conflans-
    Sainte-Honorine. This river’s source is some 30 kilometers northwest of Dijon, while its mouth is located at Le
    Havre. This river is navigable by ocean going vessels as far as Rouen, the capital of Normandy. For the point,
    name this river that flows through Paris.
    ANSWER: River Seine

23. This country is home to a natural disaster in winter known as zud, in which livestock die out due to an inability
    to graze. Snow can fall in the middle of summer in this country's capital city, which, based on annual average
    temperature, is the coldest national capital on earth. This country’s terrain is mostly steppe, but also includes the
    the Khangai Mountains and the eastern end of the Altai Mountains. In this least densely populated country on
    earth, many of the residents still live in gers, which are known as yurts in other nations in the Asian steppes. For
    the point, name this landlocked country governed from Ulaanbaatar.
    ANSWER: Mongolia



24. The Akashi Kaikyo Bridge connects this island to Amaji Island, and the Natsudomari Peninsula is in its northern
    region of Tohoku. A 2010 heat wave caused the collapse of flounder and scallop fisheries in Mutsu Bay off the
    coast of this island. The “Fugu” pufferfish capital of the world, Shimonoseki, names a strait that separates this
    island from Kyushu. Nagoya and Osaka are cities on, for the point, what largest island of Japan?
    ANSWER: Honshu

25. The Claudius Tower of this nation has no known use, with a sole Koine Greek inscription revealing that it was
    built by a merchant’s son and is dedicated to Zeus’ analogue Beelgalasos. This Mediterranean nation is the
    historical site of the Phoenician city-states of Tyre and Sidon [SIGH-don], and is the primary home of the
    Maronite Church, as well as the Islamic militant group Hezbollah. For the point, name this Middle Eastern
    nation with capital Beirut.
    ANSWER: Republic of Lebanon



   EXTRA TOSSUP:

   This region’s town of Vergina is near the ruins of Aigai, which along with Pella was the capital of a kingdom
   with this name. Kassandra and Sithonia are two of three peninsulas in this region that resemble “fingers” or
   “legs,” and are collectively known as Chalkidiki. This region’s border with Thessaly runs across Mt. Olympus.
   Kavala and Thessaloniki are cities in this region, which lies west of Thrace. For the point, name this Greek
   region, the subject of a naming dispute that led another country to add “North” to its name.
   ANSWER: Macedonia [up until “capital” in line 1, prompt on Greece, prompt on the Balkan Peninsula or
   Balkans, but not afterwards]
