          2020 International Geography Bee Varsity & Junior Varsity Nationals
                                       Round 1

1. Brian Fagan wrote and named a historiography on this period that correlated the rise of bread riots to this event.
   The rise of mass witch trials in Europe coincided with the beginning of this meteorological phenomenon, and
   this period continued during a period with fewer sunspots known as the Maunder Minimum. This period is
   responsible for the end of Norse colonization of Greenland after harsh winters forced them to abandon it in the
   15th century. For the point, name this “Age” following the Medieval Warming Period, a period of cooling in the
   Early Modern Period.
   ANSWER: Little Ice Age

2. This island is home to the controversial Cloaca machine at its Museum of Old and New Art, which can be
   accessed by ferry on the River Derwent. On this island, the “black line” attempted to force natives out of the
   Forestier Peninsula, and they were later forced to move to Flinders Island. Convict ballads were often sung by
   those who were forced to resettle at Port Arthur on this island, which was originally known as Van Diemen’s
   Land. Hobart is the capital of, for the point, what island state of Australia?
   ANSWER: Tasmania

3. In 1977, the President of this country was coronated as Emperor in a near-copy of Napoleon’s 1804 ceremony.
   At this country’s city of Nola, the Mabéré and Kadéï rivers meet to form the Sangha River, while a larger river
   in this country forms from the confluence of the Mbomou and the Uele. The majority of this nation speaks the
   Creole language of Sango, which mixes French and a Ngbandi language. A tributary of the Congo named the
   Ubangi River begins in and flows through much of this nation. For the point, name this African nation governed
   from Bangui.
   ANSWER: Central African Republic [accept C.A.R.]

4. Ancient, dry riverbeds in this desert are known as omuramba, and the kiwano, or horned melon, is endemic to
   this desert. This inland desert is home to various languages that use clicks, including the Tuu languages spoken
   by the San people. The Etosha and Makgadikgadi are salt pans in this desert. The Okavango River flows
   through this desert in an endorheic basin, which has no outlet to either the Indian or Atlantic Oceans. For the
   point, name this desert found in Namibia, Botswana, and South Africa.
   ANSWER: Kalahari Desert

5. Abdullah Öcallan [OH-jeh-lahn], a leader of this ethnic group's PKK militia, was for a time the only person kept
   on a prison island in the Sea of Marmara. A militia composed of people with this ethnicity, the Pesh Merga,
   fought alongside US troops in 2003. Saddam Hussein gassed members of this ethnic group in the town of
   Halabja towards the end of the Iran-Iraq War. The population of Erbil primarily consists of, for the point, what
   Middle Eastern minority group from Turkey, Syria, Iran, and Iraq?
   ANSWER: Kurds [or Kurdish]

6. Products of this industry have included titles such as Kongi’s Harvest and Ajani Ogun. This industry contains
   branches for consumers who view its products in Edo and Kanuri, and this industry also produced the Igbo-
   language title Ezeogbado. The city of Kano is the center of a Hausa branch of this industry, whose nickname is a
   controversial third-hand portmanteau reference to similar industries in Maharashtra and California. For the
   point, give this nickname used to describe an entertainment industry centered on cities such as Abuja and Lagos.
   ANSWER: Nollywood [accept Nigerian film industry and clear-knowledge equivalents; prompt on answers
   like African film industry]
7. The Selkirk herd, the only group of these animals in the lower 48 states, was reported as functionally extinct in
   2018; that herd is of the southern mountain subspecies of this animal. Early Canadian fur trappers supposedly
   mixed the blood of this animal with red wine and whiskey, leading to the creation of a namesake cocktail served
   at the Quebec Winter Carnival. One of these animals is depicted on the back of the Canadian quarter-dollar, and
   they are hunted by many Inuit in the Hudson Bay region. Siidas are herding communities of Sami people who
   use these animals to pull pulk sleds and for meat. For the point, name this type of deer.
   ANSWER: reindeer [or caribou; prompt on deer]

8. A 670 lb catfish, the largest ever caught, lived in this lake; that species of Giant Catfish is used as a litmus test
   for the chemical imbalances in the water of this lake, where many Cham communities consist of floating
   villages. The beginning of the fishing season in this lake is marked by the Celebration of the Seven-Headed
   Snake, and occurs when the flow of water in this lake is reversed. The Siem Reap flows into this lake, and a
   river that shares its name with this lake is a seasonal tributary of the Mekong. For the point, name this largest
   lake in Cambodia.
   ANSWER: Tonle Sap

9. This city's light rail system may in the future serve its airport via an extension through the Natomas area. This
   city, which bills itself as America's Farm-to-Fork Capital, is home to the headquarters of Blue Diamond
   almonds. An interstate separates the “Old” section of this city from its revitalized downtown, the site of the
   Golden 1 Center. This city is at the confluence of the American River and its namesake river; the former of
   those passes the suburbs of Rancho Cordova and Folsom and the latter is crossed by Tower Bridge and meets
   the San Joaquin River before feeding San Francisco Bay. For the point, name this central California city, the
   capital of the state.
   ANSWER: Sacramento, California

10. The D-Day scenes of Saving Private Ryan were filmed at Ballinesker Beach in this country. Other filming
    locations in this country include Trim Castle, which filled in for York in Braveheart, the Cliffs of Moher, and
    the former monastic settlement of Skellig Michael, an extension of McGillicuddy’s Reeks. The “gift of gab” can
    be obtained by kissing the Blarney Stone in this country, whose southwest includes Killarney National Park in
    County Kerry. The Shannon is the longest river of, for the point, what country with cities Cork, Limerick, and
    Dublin?
    ANSWER: Republic of Ireland

11. A London tube stop, which once served as a bomb shelter, is named for (this animal) and Castle. A set of
    papyrus manuscripts from an island named for these animals indicate that a population of Jewish mercenaries
    guarded the Egyptian border at Aswan. Seattle’s Woodland Park Zoo funds a program to protect these animals
    in the Tarangire region of Tanzania, and they can controversially be punished with the use of an ankus. In
    Nepal, forest rangers ride, for the point, what pachyderm, from whom ivory is often acquired?
    ANSWER: elephants [accept African elephants or Asian elephants]

12. Peter Sule, the leader of this country’s opposition party, the United Democratic Front, was assassinated in 2015
    while exiled in Uganda. The Ironstone Plateau is in the Bahr el Ghazal region in the northwest of this country,
    which disputes the Kafia Kingi and Abyei regions with its northern neighbor, and the Ilemi Triangle with
    Kenya. The Sobat river is an important waterway in this country, and much of its wildlife is reliant on the Sudd
    swamp. Dinka and Nuer are the primary ethnic groups, and Juba is the capital of, for the point, what country
    formally established in 2011?
    ANSWER: Republic of South Sudan
13. One city of this name is located east of Mattoon near the Embarras [EM-brah] River and is home to Eastern
    Illinois University. A different non-Illinois city of this name has an airport named for Chuck Yeager and is
    located along the Kanawha River. A third city of this name is home to the Arthur Ravenel Jr. Bridge and its City
    Market, a former slave market, is part of a large historic district near the confluence of the Ashley and Cooper
    Rivers. Sites near the center of that city with this name include Fort Moultrie and Fort Sumter. For the point,
    give this name shared by a historic port city in South Carolina and the capital of West Virginia.
    ANSWER: Charleston

14. This city is home to its country’s busiest bus corridor, the 99 B-Line, which crosses the neighborhoods of Point
    Grey and Kitsilano. This city’s Coal Harbour is home to much of this city’s growing collection of glass-clad
    residential skyscrapers, and along with the West End neighborhood it borders Stanley Park. A concrete factory
    and a public market share space on Granville Island, a peninsula along False Creek in this city, and this city is
    located just north of the mouth of the Fraser River on its country’s west coast. For the point, name this Canadian
    city, the most populous in British Columbia, which shares its name with an island that it is not located on.
    ANSWER: Vancouver, British Columbia [do not accept or anti-prompt on Vancouver Island]

15. Vila Amaury is a former town now submerged in an artificial lake in this city. This city’s namesake cathedral,
    reminiscent of a crown with a hyperboloid shape, has 3-meter tall statues of the four evangelists. The
    Monumental Axis is a main avenue in this city, and its landmarks include the Cultural Complex of the Republic
    and the Itamaraty Palace, also known as the Palace of the Arches. This city, once known as the Plano Piloto,
    includes the Palácio da Alvorada. Paranoá Lake is crossed by Juscelino Kubitschek Bridge in, for the point,
    what city planned by Lucio Costa and with many buildings designed by Oscar Niemeyer, the capital of Brazil?
    ANSWER: Brasilia

16. The Plaza Mexico is the largest structure for this activity in the world. Banderillas are flags stuck onto the
    shoulders during this activity, during which the ornate capote de paseo, part of the “suit of lights,” is replaced
    by the traditional red muleta. During this activity, picadors ride on blindfolded and padded horses, and are
    armed with lances. At the Festival of San Fermin, participants in these events are released from their pens and
    “run” through the streets of Pamplona. For the point, name this traditional Spanish sport where a matador kills a
    certain farm animal.
    ANSWER: bullfighting [accept Spanish bullfighting; accept word forms like bullfights; do not prompt on
    “Running of the Bulls” or similar responses]

17. The Mansi photograph has been alleged to show a sea monster residing in this lake. Knight Point is a state park
    on North Hero Island in this lake, whose shores also include an “Earth Clock” where a person serves as the
    gnomon of a sundial, and the ECHO science museum, also known as the Leahy Center. Grand Isle is the largest
    island in this lake, from which the Richelieu River rises before draining into the St. Lawrence. Benedict Arnold
    lost the Battle of Valcour Island on this lake, which was defended by Fort Ticonderoga. Plattsburgh and
    Burlington are on, for the point, what lake on the border of New York and Vermont?
    ANSWER: Lake Champlain

18. The 14th-century Valaam Monastery is named for the largest island in this lake. Burkhard Christoph von
    Münnich replaced Prince Menshikov as the head of the company tasked with building this lake’s namesake
    canal. This lake formed the eastern reaches of the Neolithic Ancylus Freshwater Lake that includes the modern
    Baltic Sea. Both Finland and the U.S.S.R. shared this lake until the Winter War, after which the Soviets annexed
    the isthmus between this lake and the Gulf of Finland. For the point, name this source of the Neva River in
    historical Karelia, the largest lake entirely in Europe.
    ANSWER: Lake Ladoga
19. The Malwiya Tower is part of a baked-brick one of these buildings commissioned by Abbasid Caliph Al-
    Muttawakil in Samarra. Jasper, onyx, and porphyry were used for columns connected by red and white arches in
    a former one of these buildings in Cordoba, Spain, and the tomb of Enrico Dandolo was destroyed in the
    conversion of a Byzantine cathedral to one of these buildings in Istanbul. King Hussein of Jordan funded the
    restoration of a gold-plated dome for another of these buildings in Jerusalem. For the point, name these
    buildings, which include a “Great” one surrounding the Kaaba in Mecca.
    ANSWER: mosques

20. This city’s Old Town preserves the “house” of the Brotherhood of Blackheads, and in this city, Gunnar Birkerts
    designed the mountain-shaped “Castle of Light” to house a National Library. The Nazi-supported “National
    Watch” was housed in a building in this city named the Corner House, in which the KGB would hold Eastern
    European dissidents. In 1941, the Einsatzgruppen massacred about 25,000 Jews in the Rumbula Forest outside
    of this city. This city, which sits on the mouth of the Daugava River, names a gulf bordered by Estonia. For the
    point, name this Baltic port, the capital city of Latvia.
    ANSWER: Riga

21. The Traveler’s Palm is a plant from this country featured in the logo of its national airline. Protected lands in
    this country include Ranomafana National Park, part of the UNESCO site, Rainforests of the Atisanana.
    However, the removal of precious woods from national parks of this country has been allowed by its President,
    Andry Rajoelina. The fossa is a cat-like predator endemic to this island, and its extinct species include the
    elephant bird and the giant aye-aye [eye eye]. Deforestation is affecting the habitat of the ring-tailed lemur on,
    for the point, what island with capital Antananarivo?
    ANSWER: Republic of Madagascar

22. The McAlpine Locks were built to bypass a series of rapids on this river, and this river’s formation is
    commemorated at Point State Park. Parkersburg, Huntington, and Owensboro lie on this river, while Cairo
    [KAY-roe], one of the most economically depressed cities in the U.S., stands at its end. Slaves traveling the
    Underground Railroad sometimes referred to this river as the river Jordan, as it marked the boundary of slave
    states and free states. The Monongahela and Allegheny Rivers meet in Pittsburgh to form, for the point, what
    river, which forms the northern border of Kentucky?
    ANSWER: Ohio River

23. A product made from this crop, sugar, cinnamon, and vanilla, atole [ah-toh-lee], is often drunk on the Day of the
    Dead in Mexico. This crop is also used in the American version of hasty pudding, Chinese wotou, and is
    fermented to make bourbon whiskey. This crop, a domesticated form of teosinte, is used to form masa flour, and
    it comes in dent, flint, and sweet varieties. Squash and climbing beans were built around this plant in a system
    known as the “three sisters.” For the point, name this most-grown crop in the Americas.
    ANSWER: corn [or maize]

24. A popular folklore custom holds that pork should never be brought across this island’s Pali Lookout, which can
    be accessed by Route 61 and provides a wide view of this island’s Windward side. Other remote sites on this
    island include Kualoa Ranch and Turtle Bay, both of which are common spots for filming. Surfers flock to
    Sunset Beach, Waimea Bay, and Ehukai Beach, the site of the Banzai Pipeline, on this island’s north shore,
    while tourists often visit its Diamond Head Crater and Waikiki Beach. For the point, name this most populous
    Hawaiian island, which includes Pearl Harbor and the city of Honolulu.
    ANSWER: Oahu
25. This city’s neighborhoods of Whitefield and Electronic City are being connected to its Namma Metro. Outside
    this city, British Army Officer Mark Cubbon built a complex of summer homes in the Nandi Hills. Tipu Sultan
    finished this city’s Lal Bagh, a botanical garden that is home to non-native species like the African Baobab and
    American Cypress. The waning Mughal Empire sold this city for 300,000 rupees to Mysore’s ruler, Chikka
    Devaraja. The cultural center of Kannada speakers is this capital of Karnataka. For the point, name this so-called
    “Silicon Valley of India.”
    ANSWER: Bangalore [or Bengaluru]

26. Chianti is a wine native to this region, where Versilia and the Val d’Orcia are popular vacation spots. In a city in
    this region, the Corteo Storico precedes a horse race around the Piazza del Campo. An ancient empire’s centers
    of marble production were in this region’s cities of Luna and Carrara. An archipelago named for this region
    includes the first site of Napoleon’s exile, Elba, and the island of Montecristo. This region includes multiple
    buildings named Il Duomo, including one in Siena and another designed by Brunelleschi. For the point, name
    this region of Italy with capital Florence.
    ANSWER: Tuscany (or Toscana, prompt on Italy until mention)

27. Flowstones are found in these places, many of which are in Gunung Mulu National Park in Sarawak. Thirteen
    people were saved from one of these locations in the Doi Nang Non at Tham [TOM] Luang in 2018, though two
    divers trying to rescue them died. These locations are often found in karst topography where water has eroded
    limestone deposits, thus creating gaps in the rock. For the point, name these locations, often home to flocks of
    bats, as well as prehistoric humans who in Lascaux [lass-COE], France created notable artwork on their walls.
    ANSWER: caves

28. A bridge across this river is overlooked by four statues of specific Fames, including commerce and industry,
    while another bridge across this river had many “love locks” placed by tourists until they were all taken down in
    2015. Four sets of locks of a different kind keep this river navigable near its confluence with the Oise (WAHZ)
    at Conflans-Sainte-Honorine. This river’s source is some 30 kilometers northwest of Dijon, while its mouth is
    located at Le Havre. This river is navigable by ocean going vessels as far as Rouen, the capital of Normandy.
    For the point, name this river that flows through Paris.
    ANSWER: River Seine

29. This country is home to a natural disaster in winter known as zud, in which livestock die out due to an inability
    to graze. Snow can fall in the middle of summer in this country's capital city, which, based on annual average
    temperature, is the coldest national capital on earth. This country’s terrain is mostly steppe, but also includes the
    Khentii Mountains, the Khangai Mountains, and the eastern end of the Altai Mountains. In this least densely
    populated country on earth, many of the residents still live in gers, which are known as yurts in other nations in
    the Asian steppes. For the point, name this landlocked country governed from Ulaanbaatar.
    ANSWER: Mongolia

30. Until 2006, the only bridge across this river was the Angostura, and this river's namesake crocodile is one of the
    most endangered reptiles in the Americas. This river is navigable until the Atures rapids near Puerto Ayacucho.
    A swimming competition is held in both the Caroni River and this river where they meet at Ciudad Guayana.
    This river is the fourth largest river in the world by discharge volume, while the Casiquiare Canal connects its
    watershed to the river with the largest discharge volume, the Amazon. For the point, name this major river of
    Venezuela.
    ANSWER: Orinoco River
31. The southeastern border of this country is formed by the Mano and Moro rivers, which run parallel to the Moa.
    The Revolutionary United Front funded a civil war in this country by selling blood diamonds, and was backed
    by Charles Taylor, who led a neighboring country. Krio, a language native to the descendants of freed slaves, is
    the lingua franca of this African country. In addition to Guinea and Liberia, this country was heavily affected by
    the 2014-2016 Ebola epidemic. For the point, name this West African country with capital Freetown.
    ANSWER: Republic of Sierra Leone

32. Croatian missionary Ferdinand Konščak (KONSH-chack) first recorded a tidal bore created by this body of
    water and mapped much of its coastline. The Seri people historically inhabited the largest island in this body of
    water, Tiburon Island. Ports on this body of water include Puerto Peñasco and La Paz, the capital of the second-
    newest state in its country. This body of water, which borders Sinaloa and Sonora, is sometimes named for
    conquistador Hernan Cortes. The Colorado River used to feed, for the point, what body of water that separates
    its namesake “Baja” peninsula from the rest of Mexico?
    ANSWER: Gulf of California [accept Sea of Cortez before Cortes is mentioned]

33. The Akashi Kaikyo Bridge connects this island to Amaji Island, and the Natsudomari Peninsula is in its northern
    region of Tohoku. On this island, 19th century Dutch architect Johannis de Rijke provided flood control for the
    Kiso Three Rivers region of its Kii Peninsula. A 2010 heat wave caused the collapse of flounder and scallop
    fisheries in Mutsu Bay off the coast of this island. The “Fugu” pufferfish capital of the world, Shimonoseki,
    names a strait that separates this island from Kyushu. Nagoya and Osaka are cities on, for the point, what largest
    island of Japan?
    ANSWER: Honshu

34. The Claudius Tower of this nation has no known use, with a sole Koine Greek inscription revealing that it was
    built by a merchant’s son and is dedicated to Zeus’ analogue Beelgalasos. The Mardaites were a group of
    Monophysites headquartered in this nation’s namesake mountain range. This Mediterranean nation is the
    historical site of the Phoenician city-states of Tyre and Sidon [SIGH-don], and is the primary home of the
    Maronite Church, as well as the Islamic militant group Hezbollah. For the point, name this Middle Eastern
    nation with capital Beirut.
    ANSWER: Republic of Lebanon

35. Pirates in this lake often targeted the Spanish colonial city of Granada. Bull sharks reached this lake by jumping
    rapids in the San Juan River, and islands in this lake include Zapatera and the Solentiname Archipelago. Rights
    to build a canal through this lake were acquired in the 1916 Bryan-Chamorro Treaty, and reacquired in 2014 by
    a company based in Hong Kong. Concepcion and Maderas are two volcanoes on Ometepe Island in this lake,
    which is connected by the Tipitapa River to Lake Managua. For the point, name this largest lake in Central
    America.
    ANSWER: Lake Nicaragua



   EXTRA TOSSUP:

   This region’s town of Vergina is near the ruins of Aigai, which along with Pella was the capital of a kingdom
   with this name. Kassandra and Sithonia are two of three peninsulas in this region that resemble “fingers” or
   “legs,” and are collectively known as Chalkidiki. This region’s border with Thessaly runs across Mt. Olympus.
   Kavala and Thessaloniki are cities in this region, which lies west of Thrace. For the point, name this Greek
   region, the subject of a naming dispute that led another country to add “North” to its name.
   ANSWER: Macedonia [up until “capital” in line 1, prompt on Greece, prompt on the Balkan Peninsula or
   Balkans, but not afterwards]
