                    2020 International Geography Bee Elementary Nationals
                                           Round 2

1. The Ruins of Saint Paul’s in the parish of San Antonio are another historic landmark in this city, which, along
   with a namesake peninsula and the reclaimed area of Cotai, lies on the islands of Taipa, Coloane, and Hengqin.
   This city is located across the Pearl River estuary from Hong Kong, and is home to a Venetian casino. For the
   point, name this formerly Portuguese-controlled Special Administrative Region of China, a global gambling
   center.
   ANSWER: Macau

2. Blizzard conditions in Daisen caused the second ever derailment on this infrastructure network by the Komachi.
   This transportation system’s L0 series broke the record for the fastest mile per hour by a MagLev train on its
   Yamanashi Test Track. A 2030 plan first proposed by the Abe (AH-bay) government plans to link Honshu to the
   major city of Sapporo by this transportation system. For the point, name this high-speed train system of Japan.
   ANSWER: Shinkansen [accept Japanese Bullet Train; prompt on partial answers]

3. This feature is blocked on its north side by a cold “wall,” and it was originally mapped after Ben Franklin asked
   about the slow travel of British merchant ships. This feature is deflected eastward by the Charleston Bump, and
   begins to cross the Atlantic after departing from the continental shelf near Cape Hatteras. Citrus trees can be
   grown in Scotland, at the same latitude as Labrador, due to, for the point, what ocean current?
   ANSWER: Gulf Stream

4. Andrew Colvin was appointed to head an agency responding to these events, the recovery from which is being
   supported by Architects Assist and the “Towards Two Billion Trees” Plan. Mount Nothofagus National Park
   and Nightcap National Park include rainforests heavily damaged by these events, which threatened homes on
   the outskirts of Sydney and Canberra. Smoke from these events travelled across the Pacific Ocean to Chile. For
   the point, what disasters took place during Australia’s recent “black summer?”
   ANSWER: bushfires [accept equivalents like wildfires; accept answers like 2019-2020 bushfires in Australia]

5. Jopara, a dialect from this country, infuses its indigenous language with Spanish words. This country's
   easternmost department is home to the Saltos del Monday, or Monday's Waterfall, while a western department
   of this country has a capital at Villa Hayes. This is the smaller of the two countries to control the Itaipu Dam,
   and its namesake river flows from Mato Grosso to the Parana River. For the point, name this country with
   capital at Asuncion.
   ANSWER: Republic of Paraguay

6. 75,000 years ago, a 6-to-10 year volcanic winter likely occurred following the eruption of this island’s Mount
   Toba, which is in its Barisan Mountains. The northern end of this island is home to the province of Aceh (AH-
   chay), which was heavily damaged in a 2004 earthquake and tsunami. This island is separated from the Malay
   Peninsula by the Straits of Malacca and it is separated from Java in the south by the Sunda Strait. For the point,
   name this westernmost of the major Indonesian islands.
   ANSWER: Sumatra

7. SINAC oversees the conservation areas of this country, including the Monteverde Cloud Forest Reserve and its
   Corcovado National Park, a popular destination on its Osa Peninsula. The stolen Treasure of Lima was
   supposedly buried on this country’s Cocos Island, a popular Pacific destination for SCUBA divers. This country
   abolished its military following the end of a Civil War in 1948, and has reversed its deforestation while
   developing an economy based on ecotourism. For the point, name this country with capital San Jose.
   ANSWER: Republic of Costa Rica
8. The Bandra-Worli Sea Link is a bridge connecting the Western Suburbs to the southern part of this city. This
   city primarily rests on the island of Salsette at the mouth of the Ulhas River. Sanjay Gupta National Park in this
   city includes the Kanheri Caves, which include Buddhist reliefs less elaborate than those in this city’s Elephanta
   Caves. This city in Maharashtra is the center of the Bollywood film industry. For the point, name this most
   populous city in India.
   ANSWER: Mumbai

9. The Tauredunum Event was a 563 CE tsunami caused by a landslide in this lake, whose Tour du Lac is the
   longest non-stop regatta in the world. Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein story originated from a trip with Lord Byron
   to this lake, while a large statue of Queen singer Freddie Mercury is in the town of Montreux (mon-TRUH) on
   its eastern shore. This lake's southern coastline lies partially in the French department of Haute-Savoie. The
   Rhone River flows into and then out of, for the point, what lake in western Switzerland?
   ANSWER: Lake Geneva [or Lac Leman]

10. This province’s Treasure Island is the world’s largest island in a lake on an island in a lake; that larger island is
    bounded by the North Channel and Georgian Bay. This province’s only land-based international borders are
    found at or near the Height of Land Portage in the Boundary Waters. This province contains the Shakespeare
    and Caribou Islands, which are located within Lake Nipigon. This province is home to Point Pelee (PEE-lee),
    the southernmost point in mainland Canada, and its city of Windsor lies across the Detroit River from Michigan.
    For the point, name this most populous province of Canada.
    ANSWER: Ontario

11. While not related to the pizza chain, Willem de Kooning and Ai Weiwei contributed outdoor fixtures to this
   city’s Pappajohn Sculpture Park. Principal Financial Group sponsored the creation of a riverwalk along this
   city’s namesake river, a tributary of the Mississippi that was named for the French Cistercian monks that first
   colonized the area. A state fair in this city is known for its butter cow and a “political soapbox” run by its
   Register newspaper in the year before its state’s Presidential caucus. For the point, name this capital of Iowa.
   ANSWER: Des Moines

12. Guthuk is a traditional noodle soup from this region, whose staple starch is a roasted barley flour called tsampa.
    In one religion native to this region, Gyalpo Pehar is a deity who protects its city of Zhangzhung. This region is
    home to Lake Manasarovar, which is considered sacred to the local Bön Religion. This region is separated from
    the Tarim Basin by the Kunlun Mountains. For the point, name this largest and highest plateau in the world,
    which shares its name with an autonomous region of China with capital at Lhasa.
    ANSWER: Tibetan Plateau

13. The only one of these facilities in Bolivia is named Chacaltaya, and was the highest in the world until it closed
    due to the melting of a namesake glacier. Masikryong is one of these locations built in North Korea ahead of the
    2018 Winter Olympics, while a 279 foot-tall artificial mountain is the centerpiece of one of these in the Mall of
    the Emirates. Grands Montets and Les Houches [Lays Oosh] are two of these facilities in Chamonix [Sham-oh-
    nee]. For the point, name these common winter vacation destinations, many of which dot the Alps.
    ANSWER: ski resorts [accept any equivalents related to skiing destinations]

14. The Ilisu Dam Campaign, led in part by comedian Mark Thomas, attempted to stop construction along this river
    that would displace over 80,000 people in Batman province. A battle named for a tributary of this river, the
    Battle of the Zab, ended in the Abbasid overthrow of the Umayyad caliphate. Saddam Hussein formerly named
    a dam along this river that is now named for a city along it, Mosul. With a river to its west, Sumerian God Enki
    is often depicted with this river flowing from his shoulder. Baghdad is on, for the point, what Mesopotamian
    River that eventually merges with the Euphrates?
    ANSWER: Tigris River
15. Visitors are encouraged to avoid one of these sites sinking into the sand of Bodie Island in North Carolina. Over
    nineteen people have died exploring another of these sites south of Nantucket, the Andrea Doria. The Queen
    Anne’s Revenge and the U.S.S. Monitor are two of these things off of North Carolina’s Outer Banks, which have
    earned it the nickname “the graveyard of the Atlantic.” For the point, name these sites created when certain
    vehicles run aground.
    ANSWER: shipwrecks

16. The Roque de los Muchachos Observatory is near the summit of this island group’s Caldera de Taburiente. Pico
    Viejo and the Decade Volcano Mount Teide (TAY-they) are on the largest island of this group. The Chinijo
    Archipelago is administered as part of this island group, the most populous within Macaronesia. Las Palmas and
    Santa Cruz are the two capitals, and Tenerife is the largest island of, for the point, what Spanish-controlled
    island chain off the northwest coast of Africa?
    ANSWER: Canary Islands [or Islas Canarias]

17. Underground homes in this country’s town of Matmata were used as the set for Tatooine in Star Wars. In 2015,
    separate militant attacks killed a combined 60 people at the resort area of Port El Kantaoui and the Bardo
    National Museum. This country's capital and largest city is served by the port of La Goulette, which is on a
    namesake Gulf north of the Gulf of Hammamet and the Gulf of Gabes. The ruins of the ancient city of Carthage
    are in, for the point, what North African country?
    ANSWER: Republic of Tunisia

18. The city of Obama is known for producing lacquered versions of these items, and sent one to Barack Obama
   when he ran for President. Saibashi are foot-long examples of these objects used in cooking, and silver versions
   of these objects were used by the Joseon dynasty for their ability to detect poison. The English name for these
   items may have originated from a Cantonese phrase meaning “hurry.” Plastic and bamboo are common
   materials for, for the point, what eating utensils most common in East Asia?
   ANSWER: chopsticks

19. For the last 60 years, a check has been sent to the defunct position of the “Treasurer General of the Republic”
    for ownership of a site named for this body of water. A province named for this body of water includes the
    Nipe-Sagua-Baracoa Mountains, and is the subject of a poem by Jose Marti. The Supreme Court Case Hamdan
    v. Rumsfeld concerned the legality of an imprisonment at a site named for this location. President Tomás Estrada
    Palma gave a perpetual lease over this bay to a Teddy Roosevelt-led government in 1903. For the point, name
    this harbor in Southeastern Cuba, home to a U.S. naval base and military prison.
    ANSWER: Guantanamo Bay [accept Gitmo or Guantanamo Bay Naval Base before “body of water”]

20. Minor league sports facilities in this city include Dunkin Donuts Park and the XL Center, while its suburb of
    Bristol is home to the headquarters of ESPN. Mark Twain wrote his Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn novels
    at his home in this city, whose Courant is the oldest continuously-published newspaper in the U.S. The
    headquarters of Aetna and the largest office of Travelers are in this city, dubbed the “insurance capital of the
    world.” In 2018, a new commuter rail line opened service between this city, New Haven, and Springfield. For
    the point, name this capital of Connecticut.
    ANSWER: Hartford, Connecticut


21. The Barkley Marathons, an ultramarathon in this state’s Frozen Head State Park, were inspired by an escape
   from the Brushy Mountain State Penitentiary. The Cumberland Plateau runs west of this state’s namesake
   valley, and divides its “east” and “middle” regions. This state’s “tri-cities” region includes Bristol, Kingsport,
   and Johnson City, while much of the Manhattan Project was based in its Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
   Clingmans Dome is the highest point in this state, which holds the western end of the most-visited U.S. National
   Park, Great Smoky Mountains. For the point, name this state with cities Chattanooga and Knoxville.
   ANSWER: Tennessee
22. This river is smaller than the Kama, its largest left tributary, at their confluence. A city near this river’s end lies
    below sea level and is the worldwide center of the caviar industry, while a song celebrating the boatmen of this
    river was popularized by Mily Balakirev. After rising in the Valdai Hills, this river stretches to be the world’s
    longest to flow into an endorheic basin when it reaches its delta near Astrakhan. For the point, name this river,
    the longest in Europe, which names a city formerly known as Stalingrad.
    ANSWER: Volga River

23. The Kiukirtliu Route is one method of climbing the tallest mountain in this range, whose glaciers feed the
   Baksan, Malka, and Kuban rivers. The Gates of Alexander were legendarily built in this mountain range, whose
   Darial Gorge was carved by the Terek River. This range's southern portion is home to the disputed territories of
   Nagorno-Karabakh and South Ossetia. The tallest mountain in Europe can be found in, for the point, what
   mountain range that runs between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea?
   ANSWER: Caucasus Mountains

24. Train cars have been turned into exhibition spaces and an old ship into a bandstand at the Havnepark in this
   city’s Islands Brygge, the home of one of its four “Harbour Baths.” 18th-century buildings in this city include
   Frederik’s Church and Amalienborg Palace, the home of an Oldenburg dynasty that has ruled from this city
   since 1448. This city’s Nyhavn (NOO-hahn) Canal is lined by many brightly-colored, 17th-century buildings,
   including the former home of Hans Christian Andersen. The Tivoli Gardens are in, for the point, what city on
   Zealand, the capital of Denmark?
   ANSWER: Copenhagen

25. In 2020, a poacher in this country confessed to killing Rafiki, the leader of the Nkuringo troop of endangered
    mountain gorillas in its Bwindi Impenetrable National Park. Mount Elgon is an extinct volcano on the eastern
    border of this country, and many Nile Crocodiles live in its shallow Lake Kyoga. This country is east of Lake
    Edward and Lake Albert, while its city of Entebbe (en-TEH-bay) lies on the shore of Lake Victoria. For the
    point, name this country with a capital at Kampala.
    ANSWER: Republic of Uganda



   EXTRA TOSSUP:

   This body of water was reached by a Roman expedition under Septimius Flaccus after a months-long journey
   through the territory of the Garamantes. The presence of manatees in the basin of this lake shows it must once
   have had a connection to the ocean, and its Bogomerom Archipelago is now part of the mainland and the subject
   of a border dispute. The Chari River is this lake’s primary inflow, and the shrinkage of this lake has been
   exacerbated by its shallow depth. N’Djamena lies in the endorheic basin of, for the point, what lake that borders
   a namesake West African country?
   ANSWER: Lake Chad
