2020-21 V/JV Spring Geography Bee                        V/JV Spring Geography Bee - Round 1



V/JV Spring Geography Bee - Round 1
Round 1 tossups
(1)     This body of water is home to the sparsely populated Primeiras and Segundas
Archipelago. The city of Moroni sits along this specific body of water on the island of Grande
Comore. The disputed island of Mayotte lies within the northern end of this body of water.
For the point, name this body of water which separates Madagascar from the mainland and
shares its name with a country whose capital is Maputo.

ANSWER: Mozambique Channel (or Canal du Mozambique; prompt on "Mozambique")

(2)    Major mountain ranges on this island include the Hido and Kiso Ranges. Scenic Lake
Biwa on this island lies in its Kansai region. Part of this island's southern coast is formed by
the Kanmon Straits, which separate this island from Kyushu, while the Tsugaru Strait
separates this island from Hokkaido to its north. For the point, name this largest and most
populous Japanese island, the location of the city of Tokyo.

ANSWER: Honshu

(3)     One feature with this name hosts the Saint Catherine's Monastery and is located
across from Mt. Catherine. One peninsula with this name is bounded on the west and east by
the Gulf of Aqaba and the Gulf of Suez. That peninsula of this name makes up the southwest
border of Gaza and Israel. For the point, give this common name of the mountain on which
God gave Moses the Ten Commandments and a peninsula in Eastern Egypt.

ANSWER: Sinai (accept Mount Sinai; accept Sinai Peninsula)

(4)     This archipelago includes Baltra Island, which is also known as South Seymour. This
archipelago sits atop the Cocos Ridge and the islands of this archipelago lie at the confluence
of the Nazca and Cocos plates. This archipelago's islands include San Cristobal, Fernandina,
and Isabela. For the point, name this Pacific archipelago controlled by Ecuador, the location
of Charles Darwin's observations of some notable finches.

ANSWER: Galapagos Islands (accept The Galapagos)

(5)     This region is home to Lake Manasarovar, which is considered sacred to the local Bon
religion. This region is separated from the Tarim Basin by the Kunlun Mountains. A railroad
stretching from Xining to this region’s capital is the highest in the world. This region’s status
as the world’s highest and largest plateau has led it to be called the "Roof of the World." For
the point, name this autonomous region of China with capital at Lhasa.

ANSWER: Tibetan Plateau
2020-21 V/JV Spring Geography Bee                      V/JV Spring Geography Bee - Round 1


(6)     This river originates from the mountain of Thaba Putsoa, and its tributaries include
the Vaal [[VAHL]] River. This river, which passes over the Augrabies [[aw-KRAH-beez]] Falls,
discharges into the Atlantic Ocean at the Alexander Bay. This river originates in the
Drakensberg Mountains in Lesotho [[leh-SOO=too]]. For the point, what is this colorfully-
named African river which is at the center of a border dispute between Namibia and South
Africa?

ANSWER: Orange River (accept Gariep River, Groote River, or Senqu River)

(7)     One disputed territory in this body of water has been administered from Sansha since
1956. One country claims the territory within the "nine-dash line" in this body of water. This
body of water is home to the heavily disputed Spratly and Paracel Islands. For the point, name
this southeast Asian Sea located between Vietnam, the Philippines, and its namesake country.

ANSWER: South China Sea (or Nan Hai; or Bien Dong; or Luzon Sea; or Dagat Timog
Tsina)

(8)      Agriculture in this country is centered on the Beqaa [[beh-KAH]] Valley. This
country's highest point is Qurnat as Sawda, or the "Black Peak." After Syria, this country has
the second-largest Druze population in the world. Ancient cities located in this country
include Byblos and Tyre. For the point, name this Middle Eastern country located north of
Israel, which is governed from Beirut.

ANSWER: Lebanon (accept Lebanese Republic)

(9)    This country contains the headwaters of the Vuoksi River, which drains its Lake
Saima. The Åland [[OH-lund]] Islands are the territory of this country despite the islands'
residents almost exclusively speaking Swedish. This country's namesake gulf separates it
from Estonia. For the point, name this northern European country sometimes included in
Scandinavia, whose capital is Helsinki.

ANSWER: Republic of Finland

(10) Users of this system can utilize the InTouch app to maintain an internet connection
while using all parts of the system. This system includes stations such as Euston and
Paddington, and commuters using this system pay using an Oyster Card. Those boarding
vehicles on this system regularly hear the phrase "mind the gap." For the point, name this
subway system in London, commonly called "The Tube."

ANSWER: London Underground (accept The Tube; prompt on descriptive answers
regarding London mass transit trains before mentioned)
2020-21 V/JV Spring Geography Bee                      V/JV Spring Geography Bee - Round 1


 (11) This country's village of Matmata is famous for its mostly underground buildings and
infrastructure. This country is where street vendor Mohamed Bouazizi set himself on fire in
2011 sparking a widespread series of protest. This country's Mediterranean coast is
contained in the Gulf of Gabès [[gah-BESS]], and this country contains the site of the ancient
city of Carthage. For the point, name this north African country which lies between Algeria
and Libya.

ANSWER: Republic of Tunisia

(12) This body of water's largest island is Kent Island, home to the towns of Stevensville
and Chester. This body of water's mouth is located between Cape Henry and Cape Charles
and can be driven across for an $18 toll. This body of water is fed by the Susquehanna and
Potomac Rivers and separates the Delmarva Peninsula from the mainland. For the point,
name this large East Coast estuary, famous for its crab fishing, which borders Maryland and
Virginia.

ANSWER: Chesapeake Bay

(13) This country's al-Anbar province is home to a city known as the "City of Mosques" due
to possessing over 200 individual such places of worship. Another city in this country's
Nineveh Governorate is home to the Nurridin Mosque. In addition to Fallujah and Mosul, this
country is home to a city that was the home of the "House of Wisdom." For the point, name
this Middle Eastern country whose capital is Baghdad.

ANSWER: Republic of Iraq

(14) This country's northern portion is dominated by the Kyzylkum [[KEEZ-eel-koom]], or
Red Sand Desert. This country's city of Bukhara is home to the Kalyan Minaret. This country's
city of Samarkand is home to the tomb of Timur the Lame. This country lies directly south of
Kazakhstan and, along with Liechtenstein, this is the only doubly-landlocked country on
Earth. For the point, name this central Asian country governed from Tashkent.

ANSWER: Republic of Uzbekistan

(15) The lingua franca of this island is the creole language Tok Pisin, although this island
is home to over 800 indigenous tongues. This island's eastern and western extremities are
formed by the Bird's Head and Bird's Tail Peninsulas. This island is separated from Australia
by the Torres Strait. For the point, name this second largest island on Earth, which is split
between Indonesia and a country whose capital is Port Moresby.

ANSWER: New Guinea (accept Papua; do not accept or prompt on "Papua New Guinea")
2020-21 V/JV Spring Geography Bee                       V/JV Spring Geography Bee - Round 1


(16) This country's northern coast is formed by the Gulf of Mosquitos, which contains the
Isla Escudo de Veraguas. This country's Chagres [[SHAH-gress]] River has been dammed
twice to form Lake Alajuela [[ah-lah-HWEH-lah]] and Gatun Lake. The Darién Gap is the site
of this country's southern border with Columbia. For the point, name this narrow Central
American country, which is crossed by a canal linking the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.

ANSWER: Republic of Panama

(17) In 2019, this crop became the first plant to have sprouted on Earth's moon as part of
China's Chang'e [[CHAHNG-EH]] program. During the rule of Muhammad Ali, steam engines
were imported to Egypt to assist with harvesting this crop. Eli Whitney invented a "gin" to
assist with harvesting this crop in the American South. For the point, name this crop which
was the dominant export of the Confederate States of America.

ANSWER: cotton

(18) This state’s namesake passenger railroad contains the Raritan Valley Line and the
Morris and Essex Lines. A city in this state was used as the source of the names of the
properties in the Monopoly Board Game. This state's city of Paterson was formerly known as
"Silk City" for its role in the textile industry. This state's gambling industry is based out of
Atlantic City. This state is separated from Pennsylvania by the Delaware River and from New
York by the Hudson River. For the point, name this east coast state whose capital is Trenton
and largest city is Newark.

ANSWER: New Jersey

(19) English minister Walter Weston is known as the "father of" a Japanese mountain
range with this name. A series of hills in eastern Nebraska are known as the Bohemian [this
name]. New Zealand's South Island also contains a mountain range with this name. For the
point, give this common name for several mountain ranges, the largest and most notable of
which is the dominant range of central Europe.

ANSWER: Alps (accept Japanese Alps; accept Bohemian Alps; accept Southern Alps; do not
accept or prompt on "Alpine")

(20) Entertainment venues along the southern shore of this body of water have included
the Garfield Beach Resort and three different resorts named Saltair. This lake is home to a
Robert Smithson-created artwork titled Spiral Jetty. This lake is the remains of the prehistoric
Lake Bonneville, and this endorheic American lake is fed by the Weber, Jordan, and Bear
Rivers. For the point, name this extremely saline lake located in northern Utah.

ANSWER: Great Salt Lake
2020-21 V/JV Spring Geography Bee                       V/JV Spring Geography Bee - Round 1


(21) Edam and Gouda are popular cheeses from this country where a presentation at the
Madurodam amusement park celebrates Bruce Springsteen. This country's city of
Middelburg serves as the capital of a non-Danish region called Zeeland. This country includes
the westernmost Frisian Islands, which is home to a language closely related to English.
Nearly half of this country's land lies below the level of the North Sea. For the point, name
this lowland country, which includes the cities of Utrecht and Rotterdam.

ANSWER: The Netherlands (accept Holland)

(22) In this country, a Belgian Malinois dog named Cairo became famous for his role in a
military operation. Due to its role in national industry, this country's city of Faisalabad has
been referred to as the "Manchester of" this country. The Shalamar Gardens from the Mughal
period are found in this country's second-most populous city, Lahore. This country's most
important sea port on the Arabian Sea and largest city is Karachi. For the point, name this
south Asian country with capital Islamabad, which disputes control of Kashmir with India.

ANSWER: Pakistan

(23) An island named for this person was formerly home to the village of Maroko, whose
residents were displaced following a 1990 demolition project. A natural landmark named for
this person is known to the locals as "The Smoke That Thunders." This person lends their
name to the capital of the Seychelles. For the point, name this British monarch who names
the largest lake and highest waterfall in Africa.

ANSWER: Queen Victoria

(24) Mountains in this country such as Cerro Autana are known as "tepui" mountains and
are located in the Parque Nacional Canaima. This country is home to the tallest waterfall in
the world, Angel Falls. This country is also home to the mouth of the Orinoco River as it flows
into the Caribbean Sea. The location of Lake Maracaibo, for the point, what is this South
American country whose capital is Caracas?

ANSWER: Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela

(25) Laterization in these biomes preventing the accumulation of humus [[HYOO-muss]]
causes soils in these biomes to often have a red color. The emergent layer of these biomes are
often inhabited by eagles and certain species of monkey. These biomes' understories only
receive five percent of the sunlight that their canopies receive. For the point, name these
biomes known for their high biodiversity and precipitation, the largest example of which is
the Amazon.

ANSWER: rainforest (prompt on "forest")
2020-21 V/JV Spring Geography Bee                        V/JV Spring Geography Bee - Round 1


(26) The Roman city of Lugdunum was found in what is now this country. This country
contains a fortress where Cathar heretics perished at Carcassonne. This country’s north-
westernmost point is found in the Celtic region of Brittany. This country's largest
administrative region is Nouvelle-Aquitaine, centered on the city of Bordeaux. Much of this
country's northern coast is comprised of the region of Normandy. For the point, name this
European country whose capital is Paris.

ANSWER: France (or French Republic)

(27) A building in Montreal built for one of these events is nicknamed "The Big O." A park
named for Queen Elizabeth in London was built to host one of these events and includes the
ArcelorMittal Orbit statue. A stadium commonly called the Bird's Nest in Beijing was built for
one of these events in 2008. For the point, name these international sporting events which
occur every four years.

ANSWER: Summer Olympics

(28) This country controls the Scorpion Reef, which forms this country's largest national
park. This country's Volcanic Belt includes the peaks of Pico de Orizaba and Nevado de Toluca.
A peninsula located in this country's western region contains the Bahía de Loreto National
Park, which lies along the coast of the Sea of Cortez. Including the Yucatan Peninsula, for the
point, what is this country located south of the U.S. border?

ANSWER: Mexico (or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos; prompt on
"EUM")

(29) One species which is endemic to this desert is Przewalski's [[pur-shuh-VAHL-skeez]]
horse. This desert is legendarily home to a "death worm," and the first-ever discovered
fossilized dinosaur eggs were found within the Nemegt Basin of this desert. This desert is
linked by the Hexi Corridor to the Tibetan Plateau in the south. For the point, name this Asian
desert formed by the rain shadow of the Himalayas which covers much of Mongolia.

ANSWER: Gobi Desert

 (30) One of these structures built near Dahshur possesses an angle shift midway through
its height, leading to it being called the "Bent" one of these structures. One of these structures
is the oldest and last remaining member of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. For the
point, name these tomb structures built for ancient Egyptian pharaohs, the largest of which
are found at Giza.

ANSWER: pyramids
2020-21 V/JV Spring Geography Bee                       V/JV Spring Geography Bee - Round 1


Extra Question
(1)     This country's southeast contains its historical "lesser" region, whose largest city is
Lublin. This country's central province is home to the city of Lodz [[WUHDZ]]. This country
contains the former German city of Danzig, which is now known as Gdansk. Other cities in
this country include Katowice [[kat-uh-VEETZ-uh]] and Krakow. For the point, name this
eastern European country whose capital city is Warsaw.

ANSWER: Republic of Poland
