2020-21 V/JV Spring Geography Bee                        V/JV Spring Geography Bee - Round 3



V/JV Spring Geography Bee - Round 3
Round 3 tossups
(1)     One island governed by this country is separated from the mainland by the Chacao
Channel and has its capital at Castro. This country’s indigenous Mapuche people, who
historically were concentrated in its south, compose nearly 10% of this country’s population.
This country's southernmost region is governed from the city of Punta Arenas. The flag of this
nation is very similar to the flag of Texas, except that the blue field is only in the upper left
corner. For the point, name this narrow South American country whose capital is Santiago.

ANSWER: Republic of Chile

(2)    This country fought a namesake war with Britain in 1865 which led to its cession of
the Cooch Behar Duars. This country is home to the Paro Taktsang monastery, and the
Thunder Dragon Druk is depicted on this country's national flag. This country also is home to
Gangkhar Puensum, the tallest unclimbed mountain in the world. This country, whose
national language is Dzongkha, is ruled by the Wangchuck dynasty. For the point, name this
small Himalayan monarchy whose capital is Thimphu.

ANSWER: Kingdom of Bhutan

(3)      Major cities on this island include Kupang and Baucau. This island, the largest of the
Outer Banda Islands, has its highest point at Ramelau. The exclave of Oecusse [[WEH-CYUSE]]
lies on the western part of this island. The eastern half of this island was colonized by Portugal
following the establishment of the capital city of Dili. For the point, name this Southeast Asian
island split between Indonesia and a namesake country.

ANSWER: Timor

(4)    One feature with this name is home to the Deux Mamelles, a pair of volcanoes whose
name means "two udders." A country with this name is divided into the Barlavento and
Sotavento Islands. That country of this name also includes the island of Pogo. The
westernmost point on continental Africa has this name. For the point, give this name shared
by a peninsula in Senegal and an island country whose capital is Praia.

ANSWER: Republic of Cape Verde (or Republica de Cabo Verde)

(5)     The shores of this body of water were formerly the site of the cities of Nguimi
[[NGWEE-mee]] and Bol. One proposal to restore this body of water was the Transqua
Project, which would have redirected water from the Ubangi River. This Sahel lake has lost
over 95% of its historic volume. For the point, name this rapidly drying-up African lake which
shares its name with a country governed from N'Djamena [[un-jah-MAY-nah]].

ANSWER: Lake Chad
2020-21 V/JV Spring Geography Bee                       V/JV Spring Geography Bee - Round 3


(6)    According to local legend, these objects were transported to their current location by
being "walked." By the mid-1800s, the only examples of these objects to have not been
toppled were at Rano Raraku. Many of these objects were originally topped with a pukao, a
red hat-like object which may have represented a chieftain's topknot. For the point, name
these head-shaped monoliths created by the Rapa Nui people of Easter Island.

ANSWER: Mo'ai (prompt on descriptive answers of head statues on Easter Island)

(7)     The city of Kuching is on this island and serves as the capital of the Sarawak State.
This island's northern tip consists of the Sabah State, and the city of Bandar Seri Begawan is
the capital of a sultanate located entirely on this island. This island’s highest peak of Mount
Kinabalu overlooks the habitat of its native orangutans. For the point, name this third largest
island in the world, which is divided between Malaysia, Indonesia, and Brunei.

ANSWER: Borneo (or Kalimantan)

(8)      Near the town of Sankt Gore, this river wraps around the Lorelei Rock. This river is
the source of the seldom-used last name of the 17th century painter of The Jewish Bride. This
river flows through Lake Constance, where it forms an inland delta. This river originates in
Lake Tomasee in Switzerland and discharges in the Netherlands. Major cities along this river
include Cologne and Dusseldorf. For the point, name this European river which forms the
border between France and Germany.

ANSWER: Rhine River

(9)      In 2001, the Washington Post officially dubbed the title of “the armpit of America”
upon this state’s city of Battle Mountain. This state is sometimes known as the Battle Born
State for achieving statehood during the U.S. Civil War. An annual festival featuring the
burning of a wooden effigy is hosted at a temporary city in this state's Black Rock Desert. This
state's largest city is served by McCarran International Airport and is home to many casinos,
including the Venetian and Caesars Palace. For the point, name this western U.S. state whose
capital is Carson City.

ANSWER: Nevada

(10) In 2019, the first member of this country’s predominant ethnic group to be elected to
the US Congress, began representing the Minnesota 5th district. A former British colony
claimed by this country runs a de facto independent government from the city of Hargeisa.
The breakaway region of Puntland is located along this country's northeast coast. This
country is separated from Yemen by the Gulf of Aden. For the point, name this country on the
Horn of Africa, whose capital city is Mogadishu.

ANSWER: Federal Republic of Somalia
2020-21 V/JV Spring Geography Bee                       V/JV Spring Geography Bee - Round 3


(11) The city of Sukhumi lies along this body of water and serves as the capital of the
unrecognized breakaway state of Abkhazia [[ab-KAH-zyuh]]. The disputed Tuzla Island lies
along the northern banks of this body of water within the Kerch Strait. In 2014, Russia
invaded and annexed a peninsula along this body of water's northern shore. For the point,
name this inland sea located south of Ukraine and north of Turkey.

ANSWER: Black Sea

 (12) This body's inland-most portion is the Samborombón Bay, and this body of water's
most navigable portion is called the Canal Punto Indio. This body of water forms from the
confluence of the Parana and Uruguay Rivers. Capital cities along this body of water include
Montevideo and Buenos Aires. For the point, name this large South American estuary which
forms part of the border between Uruguay and Argentina.

ANSWER: Rio de la Plata (accept River Plate)

(13) This nation's island of Savai'i is home to its highest point, Mt. Silisili. The town of
Tafuna is the largest settlement of one territory in this archipelago which is split by the
International Date Line and contains the islands of Upolu and Tutuila. For the point, name
this archipelago, which is split into a territory governed from Pago Pago [[PEN-goh PEN-goh]]
and an independent namesake country governed from Apia.

ANSWER: Independent State of Samoa

(14) This mountain, which lies on the border of the Agrı and Igdır Provinces, was first
ascended by Friedrich Parrot [[pah-ROH]] and Khachatur Abovian. Despite lying outside of
its borders, the Armenian Coat of Arms depicts this mountain which is also used as a symbol
for Greater Armenia. For the point, name this highest mountain in Turkey which, according
to the Bible, was the location on which Noah's Ark landed following the Great Flood.

ANSWER: Mount Ararat

(15) This city's Vondelpark is home to a Picasso statue that depicts a bird but is known to
locals as "The Fish." This city’s flag contains three white X’s on a horizontal black stripe
between two red stripes and its primary airport, Schipol (SKIP-ahl), is Europe’s third-busiest.
The coffeeshops of this city are often also legal cannabis dispensaries. This city's circular
canal system has earned it the nickname "the Venice of the North." Home to the Anne Frank
House, for the point, name this city which, unlike The Hague, is the constitutional capital of
the Netherlands.

ANSWER: Amsterdam
2020-21 V/JV Spring Geography Bee                       V/JV Spring Geography Bee - Round 3


(16) This country's Mopti Region is home to the Hombori Commune. This country’s
Azawad region briefly broke away from it during a rebellion staged by Tuareg rebels in this
country's north. This country's major cities include Koutiala and Sikasso, and its capital city
is Bamako. For the point, name this West African country which takes its name from a
medieval kingdom ruled by Sundiata Keita and Mansa Musa.

ANSWER: Republic of Mali

(17) This archipelago's highest point is Makushin Volcano, which is contained in the Fox
Islands. This archipelago’s city of Dutch Harbor was bombed in World War II, and it contains
the only land in the continental U.S. to have been occupied by Japan during World War Two.
This archipelago's largest island is Attu, and while under Russian control these islands were
known as the Catherine Archipelago. For the point, name this chain of islands off the
southwest coast of Alaska.

ANSWER: Aleutian Islands (accept Aleutians)

(18) One of these places in London's Brampton District is named for Queen Victoria and
Prince Albert. One of these places located in Bilbao, Spain consists of curved stainless steel
wings and was designed by Frank Gehry. The Tate Modern is a popular one of these places in
London, while examples of these in New York include the Frick and the Whitney. For the
point, name these buildings used to display aesthetic creations, which include several
commissioned by the Guggenheim Foundation.

ANSWER: art museums (prompt on "museum" or specific museums, accept art galleries)

(19) While passing through the Champasak Falls, this river passes over the Khone
[[KOHN]] Phapheng Falls. This river seasonally reverses between receiving water from and
feeding the Tonle Sap. Tributaries of this river include the Mun and Nam Khan. Cities along
this river include Vientiane and Phnom Penh. For the point, name this Southeast Asian river
which discharges in southern Vietnam.

ANSWER: Mekong River

(20) This state contains the entire length of the Conchos River, and this state's portion of
the Sierra Madre Occidental mountains includes the Copper Canyon system. This state's
northern border is formed by New Mexico and Texas, and it lies to the east of Sonora. This
state's largest city is Ciudad Juarez [[syee-yoo-DAHD HWAH-rez]]. For the point, name this
state in Mexico, the largest by area, which shares its name with a small breed of dog.

ANSWER: Chihuahua [[chee-WAH-wah]]
2020-21 V/JV Spring Geography Bee                      V/JV Spring Geography Bee - Round 3


(21) Part of this river discharges into the Rann of Kutch salt marshes. While flowing
through Tibet, this river is known as Sengge Zangbo. This river is dammed to create the
Tarbela Reservoir, and the "Dancing Girl" sculpture was found in this river's ancient city of
Mohenjo Daro. For the point, name this south Asian river which lends its name to the
Harappan civilization of Pakistan and India.

ANSWER: Indus River

(22) This country includes the limestone coral island of Caye Caulker. This country's Cayo
Region is home to the ruins at Xunantunich [[shoo-nahn-TOO-nitch]]. Hurricane Hattie’s
1961 direct hit on what is now this country led it to move its capital farther inland. This
country's natural attractions include a giant marine sinkhole called the Great Blue Hole, and
this is the only country in Central America whose official language is English. For the point,
name this country formerly known as British Honduras, whose capital is Belmopan.

ANSWER: Belize

(23) This island is home to the rugged Cliffs of Moher in its west. This island contains the
River Suir [[SHOOR]], whose mouth is near the town of Waterford that is famous for its
namesake crystal. This island's longest river is the River Shannon, which discharges into the
Atlantic Ocean near the city of Limerick. This island's north is home to the historical region
of Ulster, which roughly corresponds to the portion of this island currently governed by the
United Kingdom. For the point, name this island, home to the cities of Belfast and Dublin.

ANSWER: Ireland (or Éire)

(24) This body of water’s potash industry has come into conflict with its tourism industry,
centered at shoreline towns such as Ein Bokek. Plains currently covered by this body of water
are reported by Rabbinical sources to have been the location of the cities of Sodom and
Gomorrah. This body of water lends its name to a collection of ancient Jewish scrolls found in
the Qumran [[KOOM-RON]] Caves. This lake is the site of the lowest land elevation on Earth.
For the point, name this extremely salty lake on the border of Jordan, Palestine, and Israel.

ANSWER: Dead Sea (accept Sea of Salt; accept Buhayrat; accept Bahret; accept Birket
Lut)



(25) The largest of these geographical features in the world by volume is Sơn Đoòng [[sun-
DAHNG]] in Vietnam. These features are inhabited by troglofauna, such as the Texas Blind
Salamander. The "Mammoth" example of these geographical features in central Kentucky is
the world's longest. Lascaux [[lahs-COH]], a complex of these geographical features in France,
is home to over 600 paintings dating to the Upper Paleolithic era. For the point, name these
geographical features often formed by dissolving limestone with acidic groundwater.

ANSWER: caves
2020-21 V/JV Spring Geography Bee                        V/JV Spring Geography Bee - Round 3


(26) The building of one of these structures on the uninhabited island of Märket led to a
territorial dispute between Finland and Sweden. A little red one of these examples is found
under the busiest bridge by vehicle traffic in the USA. The tallest brick example of these
structures in the United States is located at Cape Hatteras. One of these structures in ancient
Alexandria was known as the Pharos. For the point, name these towers which shine out to
sea in order to prevent shipwrecks.

ANSWER: lighthouses

 (27) This country was home to Nobel Literature laureate Halldór Laxness, whose last
name is unusual in that it is not a patronymic. The largest lake in this country is Thorisvatn,
and this country is also the location of the Blue Lagoon spa in a lava field near Grindavik. This
country's waterfalls include Skogafoss and Gullfoss. This country is governed by the Althing,
the oldest existing parliament in the world. Separated from Greenland by the Davis Strait, for
the point, name this northern European island nation whose capital is Reykjavik.

ANSWER: Iceland

(28) This country contains Mount Damavand, Asia's highest volcano, within its Alborz
Mountains while this country's western border roughly follows the Zagros Mountains. This
country's largest island is Qeshm [[GEH-shm]], which grants it control of the Strait of Hormuz.
This is the largest and most populous Shia-majority country in the world. For the point, name
this country, formerly known as Persia, whose capital is Tehran.

ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Iran (accept Persia before mentioned)

(29) The Qaraqum Canal diverts water away from this body of water to assist with the
local cotton industry. This lake receives water from the Syr Darya and Amu Darya rivers.
Rebirth Island was formerly located within this lake, but is now connected to the mainland
due to an ongoing environmental disaster. For the point, name this mostly dried-up Central
Asian lake, located to the east of the Caspian Sea.

ANSWER: Aral Sea

(30) Invasive Burmese Pythons have devastated this US region’s native fauna. This region
was connected to the Gulf of Mexico by the pre-Columbian Mud Lake Canal. This region is
passed through by the Shark and Harney Rivers and is the only place on earth where
crocodiles and alligators naturally coexist. For the point, name this "River of Grass," a
protected wetland, south of Big Cypress National Preserve and Lake Okeechobee in southern
Florida.

ANSWER: Everglades National Park
2020-21 V/JV Spring Geography Bee                       V/JV Spring Geography Bee - Round 3


Extra Question
(1)      The outer edge of this site contains 36 chalk pits called "Aubrey Holes." Despite this
site's name, archaeologists believe it once contained a ring of timber posts around 3000 BC.
During the Summer Solstice, the sun rises over this structure's Heel Stone. For the point, name
this prehistoric monument in Wiltshire, England, which consists of rings of upright stones.

ANSWER: Stonehenge
