          2020 International Geography Bee Varsity & Junior Varsity Nationals
                                       Round 2

1. In 2007, UNESCO warned this city over the construction of a Liaison Office next to its Guia Lighthouse. The
   Ruins of Saint Paul’s in the parish of San Antonio are another historic landmark in this city, which, along with a
   namesake peninsula and the reclaimed area of Cotai, lies on the islands of Taipa, Coloane, and Hengqin. This
   city is located across the Pearl River estuary from Hong Kong, and is home to a Venetian casino. For the point,
   name this formerly Portuguese-controlled Special Administrative Region of China, a global gambling center.
   ANSWER: Macau

2. Sprinklers have been used to clear snow from this infrastructure network near Maibara. Blizzard conditions in
   Daisen caused the second ever derailment on this infrastructure network by the Komachi. This transportation
   system’s L0 series broke the record for the fastest mile per hour by a MagLev train on its Yamanashi Test
   Track. A 2030 plan first proposed by the Abe (AH-bay) government plans to link Honshu to the major city of
   Sapporo by this transportation system. For the point, name this high-speed train system of Japan.
   ANSWER: Shinkansen [accept Japanese Bullet Train; prompt on partial answers]

3. The amount of plankton in the English Lake District decreases as this feature oscillates northwards. This feature
   is blocked on its north side by a cold “wall,” and it was originally mapped after Ben Franklin asked about the
   slow travel of British merchant ships. This feature is deflected eastward by the Charleston Bump, and begins to
   cross the Atlantic after departing from the continental shelf near Cape Hatteras. Citrus trees can be grown in
   Scotland, at the same latitude as Labrador, due to, for the point, what ocean current?
   ANSWER: Gulf Stream

4. The entire habitat of the Kate’s leaf-tailed gecko was destroyed during these events. Andrew Colvin was
   appointed to head an agency responding to these events, the recovery from which is being supported by
   Architects Assist and the “Towards Two Billion Trees” Plan. Mount Nothofagus National Park and Nightcap
   National Park include rainforests heavily damaged by these events, which threatened homes on the outskirts of
   Sydney and Canberra. Smoke from these events travelled across the Pacific Ocean to Chile. For the point, what
   disasters took place during Australia’s recent “black summer?”
   ANSWER: bushfires [accept equivalents like wildfires; accept answers like 2019-2020 bushfires in Australia]

5. The Fernheim and Menno colonies were established in this country by Mennonites from Canada and Russia.
   Jopara, a dialect from this country, infuses its indigenous language with Spanish words. This country's
   easternmost department is home to the Saltos del Monday, or Monday's Waterfall, while a western department
   of this country has a capital at Villa Hayes. This is the smaller of the two countries to control the Itaipu Dam,
   and its namesake river flows from Mato Grosso to the Parana River. For the point, name this country with
   capital at Asuncion.
   ANSWER: Republic of Paraguay

6. Islands off the shore of this larger island include Simeulue, Nias, Bangka, and Belitung. 75,000 years ago, a 6-
   to-10 year volcanic winter likely occurred following the eruption of this island’s Mount Toba, which is in its
   Barisan Mountains. The northern end of this island is home to the province of Aceh (AH-chay), which was
   heavily damaged in a 2004 earthquake and tsunami. This island is separated from the Malay Peninsula by the
   Straits of Malacca and it is separated from Java in the south by the Sunda Strait. For the point, name this
   westernmost of the major Indonesian islands.
   ANSWER: Sumatra
7. SINAC oversees the conservation areas of this country, including the Monteverde Cloud Forest Reserve and its
   Corcovado National Park, a popular destination on its Osa Peninsula. The stolen Treasure of Lima was
   supposedly buried on this country’s Cocos Island, a popular Pacific destination for SCUBA divers. This country
   abolished its military following the end of a Civil War in 1948, and has reversed its deforestation while
   developing an economy based on ecotourism. For the point, name this country with capital San Jose.
   ANSWER: Republic of Costa Rica

8. This city's neighborhood of Santa Cruz is home to the historic Catholic center of Willingdon Colony. The
   Bandra-Worli Sea Link is a bridge connecting the Western Suburbs to the southern part of this city. This city
   primarily rests on the island of Salsette at the mouth of the Ulhas River. Sanjay Gupta National Park in this city
   includes the Kanheri Caves, which include Buddhist reliefs less elaborate than those in this city’s Elephanta
   Caves. This city in Maharashtra is the center of the Bollywood film industry. For the point, name this most
   populous city in India.
   ANSWER: Mumbai

9. This is the largest body of water affected by the Bise (BEESE) winds, which can cause it to freeze over. The
   Tauredunum Event was a 563 CE tsunami caused by a landslide in this lake, whose Tour du Lac is the longest
   non-stop regatta in the world. Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein story originated from a trip with Lord Byron to this
   lake, while a large statue of Queen singer Freddie Mercury is in the town of Montreux (mon-TRUH) on its
   eastern shore. This lake's southern coastline lies partially in the French department of Haute-Savoie. The Rhone
   River flows into and then out of, for the point, what lake in western Switzerland?
   ANSWER: Lake Geneva [or Lac Leman]

10. This province’s Treasure Island is the world’s largest island in a lake on an island in a lake; that larger island is
    bounded by the North Channel and Georgian Bay. This province’s only land-based international borders are
    found at or near the Height of Land Portage in the Boundary Waters. This province contains the Shakespeare
    and Caribou Islands, which are located within Lake Nipigon. This province is home to Point Pelee (PEE-lee),
    the southernmost point in mainland Canada, and its city of Windsor lies across the Detroit River from Michigan.
    For the point, name this most populous province of Canada.
    ANSWER: Ontario

11. While not related to the pizza chain, Willem de Kooning and Ai Weiwei contributed outdoor fixtures to this
   city’s Pappajohn Sculpture Park. Principal Financial Group sponsored the creation of a riverwalk along this
   city’s namesake river, a tributary of the Mississippi that was named for the French Cistercian monks that first
   colonized the area. A state fair in this city is known for its butter cow and a “political soapbox” run by its
   Register newspaper in the year before its state’s Presidential caucus. For the point, name this capital of Iowa.
   ANSWER: Des Moines

12. Guthuk is a traditional noodle soup from this region, whose staple starch is a roasted barley flour called tsampa.
    The Rimé movement attempts to understand the Sakya, Kagyu, and Nyingma schools of a religion from this
    region. In one religion native to this region, Gyalpo Pehar is a deity who protects its city of Zhangzhung. This
    region is home to Lake Manasarovar, which is considered sacred to the local Bön Religion. This region is
    separated from the Tarim Basin by the Kunlun Mountains. For the point, name this largest and highest plateau in
    the world, which shares its name with an autonomous region of China with capital at Lhasa.
    ANSWER: Tibetan Plateau
13. Tiffindell, one of only two of these places in Africa, is near Lesotho (leh-SOO-too) in South Africa’s
   Drakensberg Mountains.. The only one of these facilities in Bolivia is named Chacaltaya, and was the highest in
   the world until it closed due to the melting of a namesake glacier. Masikryong is one of these locations built in
   North Korea ahead of the 2018 Winter Olympics, while a 279 foot-tall artificial mountain is the centerpiece of
   one of these in the Mall of the Emirates. Grands Montets and Les Houches [Lays Oosh] are two of these
   facilities in Chamonix [Sham-oh-nee]. For the point, name these common winter vacation destinations, many of
   which dot the Alps.
   ANSWER: ski resorts [accept any equivalents related to skiing destinations]

14. The Ilisu Dam Campaign, led in part by comedian Mark Thomas, attempted to stop construction along this river
    that would displace over 80,000 people in Batman province. A battle named for a tributary of this river, the
    Battle of the Zab, ended in the Abbasid overthrow of the Umayyad caliphate. Saddam Hussein formerly named
    a dam along this river that is now named for a city along it, Mosul. With a river to its west, Sumerian God Enki
    is often depicted with this river flowing from his shoulder. Baghdad is on, for the point, what Mesopotamian
    River that eventually merges with the Euphrates?
    ANSWER: Tigris River

15. One of these sites was found under a soybean field near Marion, Arkansas, leading to the creation of a Sultana
    museum there. Visitors are encouraged to avoid another of these sites sinking into the sand of Bodie Island in
    North Carolina. Over nineteen people have died exploring another of these sites south of Nantucket, the Andrea
    Doria. The Queen Anne’s Revenge and the U.S.S. Monitor are two of these things off of North Carolina’s Outer
    Banks, which have earned it the nickname “the graveyard of the Atlantic.” For the point, name these sites
    created when certain vehicles run aground.
    ANSWER: shipwrecks

16. The 220-foot tall Roque Nublo is a volcanic rock that is the third-highest point of an island in this group. The
    Roque de los Muchachos Observatory is near the summit of this island group’s Caldera de Taburiente. Pico
    Viejo and the Decade Volcano Mount Teide (TAY-they) are on the largest island of this group. The Chinijo
    Archipelago is administered as part of this island group, the most populous within Macaronesia. Las Palmas and
    Santa Cruz are the two capitals, and Tenerife is the largest island of, for the point, what Spanish-controlled
    island chain off the northwest coast of Africa?
    ANSWER: Canary Islands [or Islas Canarias]

17. Temples to Saturn, Jupiter Caelestis, and a Roman Amphitheater are part of the archaeological site of Dougga in
    this country. Underground homes in this country’s town of Matmata were used as the set for Tatooine in Star
    Wars. In 2015, separate militant attacks killed a combined 60 people at the resort area of Port El Kantaoui and
    the Bardo National Museum. This country's capital and largest city is served by the port of La Goulette, which is
    on a namesake Gulf north of the Gulf of Hammamet and the Gulf of Gabes. The ruins of the ancient city of
    Carthage are in, for the point, what North African country?
    ANSWER: Republic of Tunisia

18. The island of Impalila is at the confluence of this river and the Chobe (CHO-bay) River. As this river passes by
    the town of Sioma, it forms the Ngonye Falls. Mana Pools National Park, Matusadona National Park, and Mosi-
    oa-Tunya National Park are all along the upper and middle courses of this river. The Kariba and Cahora Bassa
    Dams are both on this river, which passes over the Devil's Cataracts on its way to the Indian Ocean. This river
    includes Africa's largest waterfall, the Victoria Falls. For the point, name this southern African river that forms
    the border between Zambia and Zimbabwe.
    ANSWER: Zambezi River
19. Scientists mimicked the tests performed by the Viking 1 and Viking 2 Mars rovers near Yungay in this desert.
    The Camanchaca is a rainless fog that forms near this desert, which has the largest deposits of sodium nitrate in
    the world. This desert formed as a result of the rain shadow from the Cordillera Domeyko mountains, and its
    main water source is the Loa River, which is north of Antofagasta. The Paranal Observatory in this desert hosts
    the simply-named Very Large Telescope. For the point, name this driest desert in the world, located in northern
    Chile.
    ANSWER: Atacama Desert

20. The city of Obama is known for producing lacquered versions of these items, and sent one to Barack Obama
   when he ran for President. Saibashi are foot-long examples of these objects used in cooking, and silver versions
   of these objects were used by the Joseon dynasty for their ability to detect poison. The English name for these
   items may have originated from a Cantonese phrase meaning “hurry.” Plastic and bamboo are common
   materials for, for the point, what eating utensils most common in East Asia?
   ANSWER: chopsticks

21. For the last 60 years, a check has been sent to the defunct position of the “Treasurer General of the Republic”
    for ownership of a site named for this body of water. A province named for this body of water includes the
    Nipe-Sagua-Baracoa Mountains, and is the subject of a poem by Jose Marti. The Supreme Court Case Hamdan
    v. Rumsfeld concerned the legality of an imprisonment at a site named for this location. President Tomás Estrada
    Palma gave a perpetual lease over this bay to a Teddy Roosevelt-led government in 1903. For the point, name
    this harbor in Southeastern Cuba, home to a U.S. naval base and military prison.
    ANSWER: Guantanamo Bay [accept Gitmo or Guantanamo Bay Naval Base before “body of water”]

22. Armsmear, the estate of Samuel Colt, is in this city. Minor league sports facilities in this city include Dunkin
    Donuts Park and the XL Center, while its suburb of Bristol is home to the headquarters of ESPN. Mark Twain
    wrote his Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn novels at his home in this city, whose Courant is the oldest
    continuously-published newspaper in the U.S. The headquarters of Aetna and the largest office of Travelers are
    in this city, dubbed the “insurance capital of the world.” In 2018, a new commuter rail line opened service
    between this city, New Haven, and Springfield. For the point, name this capital of Connecticut.
    ANSWER: Hartford, Connecticut

23. In this region, Carmelite nuns built a Chapel adorned with bones with the inscription “Stop here and think of the
    fate that will befall you.” That building, the Capela de Ossos, is in this region’s city of Faro. It’s not in Nigeria,
    but this region’s city of Lagos on the Atlantic Ocean served as a center for Prince Henry the Navigator’s
    exploratory expedition. Cape St. Vincent is at the southwest end of this region, which is partially on the Gulf of
    Cadiz. For the point, name this southernmost region of Portugal, a tourist hub for European travelers.
    ANSWER: Algarve (prompt on Portugal or Iberia(n) Peninsula, do not prompt on Spain)

24. The Barkley Marathons, an ultramarathon in this state’s Frozen Head State Park, were inspired by an escape
   from the Brushy Mountain State Penitentiary. The Cumberland Plateau runs west of this state’s namesake
   valley, and divides its “east” and “middle” regions. This state’s “tri-cities” region includes Bristol, Kingsport,
   and Johnson City, while much of the Manhattan Project was based in its Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
   Clingmans Dome is the highest point in this state, which holds the western end of the most-visited U.S. National
   Park, Great Smoky Mountains. For the point, name this state with cities Chattanooga and Knoxville.
   ANSWER: Tennessee

25. This river is smaller than the Kama, its largest left tributary, at their confluence. A city near this river’s end lies
    below sea level and is the worldwide center of the caviar industry, while a song celebrating the boatmen of this
    river was popularized by Mily Balakirev. After rising in the Valdai Hills, this river stretches to be the world’s
    longest to flow into an endorheic basin when it reaches its delta near Astrakhan. For the point, name this river,
    the longest in Europe, which names a city formerly known as Stalingrad.
    ANSWER: Volga River
26. Smaller, thinner, and wooden varieties of these objects are called kavakavas. According to local legend, these
    objects were transported to their current location by being “walked,” while harnessed with ropes, and they likely
    lost their significance during the emergence of the “birdman” cult. Many of these objects were originally topped
    with a pukao, a red hat-like object that may have represented a chieftain’s topknot, and most of them can be
    found at the quarry of Rano Raraku. For the point, name these head-shaped monoliths created by the Rapa Nui
    people of Easter Island.
    ANSWER: Moai (prompt on descriptive answers, such as “Easter Island statues”)

27. In this country, individuals dressed as demons chase away the winter in the Kurentovanje Festival, held in the
    city of Ptuj. Murska Sobota is the capital of the Prekmurje region in this country’s northeast. Popular
    destinations in this country include the Soca River, Lake Bled, and Lake Bohinj, which is in its Triglav National
    Park. The Sava River rises in this country, whose karst topography includes the Skocjan (SKOATS-yahn)
    Caves. Much of this country is dominated by the Dinaric Alps and the Julian Alps, and its short Adriatic Coast
    begins southwest of Trieste, Italy. For the point, name this country with capital Ljubljana.
    ANSWER: Republic of Slovenia

28. The Kiukirtliu Route is one method of climbing the tallest mountain in this range, whose glaciers feed the
   Baksan, Malka, and Kuban rivers. The Gates of Alexander were legendarily built in this mountain range, whose
   Darial Gorge was carved by the Terek River. This range's southern portion is home to the disputed territories of
   Nagorno-Karabakh and South Ossetia. The tallest mountain in Europe can be found in, for the point, what
   mountain range that runs between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea?
   ANSWER: Caucasus Mountains

29. This river’s valley formed the majority of the bed of Lake Allison. This river is crossed by the Canby Ferry as
    well as the two oldest vertical lift bridges in North America. The ghost town of Champoeg [sham-POO-ee] lies
    along this river, and while it’s not in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, or New York, this river flows past Harrisburg,
    Milwaukie, and Albany. North of Springfield, this river is joined by the McKenzie River before flowing past the
    End of the Oregon Trail Interpretive Center. For the point, name this river in the Pacific Northwest, a tributary
    of the Columbia River, whose namesake valley contains 70% of the population of Oregon
    ANSWER: Willamette River

30. Train cars have been turned into exhibition spaces and an old ship into a bandstand at the Havnepark in this
   city’s Islands Brygge, the home of one of its four “Harbour Baths.” A ski slope lies atop the Amager Bakke
   waste-to-energy plant in this city, which, in 2019, opened its City Circle Metro line. 18th-century buildings in
   this city include Frederik’s Church and Amalienborg Palace, the home of an Oldenburg dynasty that has ruled
   from this city since 1448. This city’s Nyhavn (NOO-hahn) Canal is lined by many brightly-colored, 17th-
   century buildings, including the former home of Hans Christian Andersen. The Tivoli Gardens are in, for the
   point, what city on Zealand, the capital of Denmark?
   ANSWER: Copenhagen

31. It’s not Tanzania, but tree-climbing lions are a bizarre sight near the Ishasha River in this country’s Queen
   Elizabeth National Park. In 2020, a poacher in this country confessed to killing Rafiki, the leader of the
   Nkuringo troop of endangered mountain gorillas in its Bwindi Impenetrable National Park. Mount Elgon is an
   extinct volcano on the eastern border of this country, and many Nile Crocodiles live in its shallow Lake Kyoga.
   This country is east of Lake Edward and Lake Albert, while its city of Entebbe (en-TEH-bay) lies on the shore
   of Lake Victoria. For the point, name this country with a capital at Kampala.
   ANSWER: Republic of Uganda
32. Musical genres native to this country include twoubadou, méringue (may-REG), and compas. It’s not Jamaica,
    but an island in this country was a neutral base for the Brethren of the Coast, a group of pirates that included
    Henry Morgan. This country's population is centered on its southwest lowland region called the Plain of the Cul-
    de-Sac, which becomes the Hoya de Enriquillo in a country to the east. The island of Tortuga is north of this
    country also home to the Tiburon Peninsula and the lake Étang Saumâtre. For the point, name this country east
    of the Windward Passage, with capital Port-au-Prince.
    ANSWER: Republic of Haiti

33. In the 1920s, saloons straddling this feature were built on International Street in two communities divided in
   1853. The historic El Camino del Diablo runs along this feature for most of its length, and its busiest crossing is
   near San Ysidro. A river shifting its course led to the Chamizal Dispute after this feature was originally
   demarcated in the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo and changed in the Gadsden Purchase. For the point, name this
   most-crossed border in the world, which runs through the Sonoran Desert and along the Rio Grande.
   ANSWER: United States-Mexico border [accept clear equivalents; prompt on partial]

34. Jean Trehet designed a maze for the French Garden of this palace, and the Neptune Fountain of its sculpture
   garden was sculpted by Wilhelm Bayer. The oldest continually operating zoo in the world is in the “Tiergarten”
   of this palace in the district of Hietzing (HEATS-ing), which was used seasonally along with the residence of
   the Hofburg. The grounds of this palace were originally a hunting ground for Maximilian II, and it was
   remodeled during the rule of Maria Theresa. For the point, name this Rococo summer palace of the Hapsburg
   Dynasty in Vienna, Austria.
   ANSWER: Schönbrunn Palace

35. According to legend, the hero Kupe [Koo-pee] discovered this body of water while chasing a giant octopus. A
    Risso’s Dolphin named Pelorus Jack historically escorted ships departing Admiralty Bay through this body of
    water. Islands in this body of water include The Brothers and Arapoa, which is at one end of the Marlborough
    Sounds. This body of water takes its name from the British captain of the Endeavour, who later landed at
    Botany Bay. Wellington sits at one end of, for the point, what strait, which separates the North and South
    Islands of New Zealand?
    ANSWER: Cook Strait

   EXTRA TOSSUP:

   This body of water was reached by a Roman expedition under Septimius Flaccus after a months-long journey
   through the territory of the Garamantes. The presence of manatees in the basin of this lake shows it must once
   have had a connection to the ocean, and its Bogomerom Archipelago is now part of the mainland and the subject
   of a border dispute. The Chari River is this lake’s primary inflow, and the shrinkage of this lake has been
   exacerbated by its shallow depth. N’Djamena lies in the endorheic basin of, for the point, what lake that borders
   a namesake West African country?
   ANSWER: Lake Chad
