2020-21 Geography Bee One                                                             Extra Questions



Extra Questions
Extra Questions
(1)      This island's highest point is Pidurutalagala, or Mount Pedro. This island's longest
river is the Mahaweli River, and this island's Bambarakanda Falls lie on the Kuda Oya river.
This island country, which is separated from the mainland by the Palk Strait, was known as
Ceylon while under British rule. For the point, name this island nation located south of
India, home to the cities of Kotte and Colombo.

ANSWER: Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(2)     This state's western region contains the Pisgah National Forest and the highest
point east of the Mississippi, Mount Mitchell. A string of inlets and sounds along this state's
coast include the largest lagoon on the East coast, Pamlico Sound. This state's Outer Banks
includes the "Graveyard of the Atlantic," and this state's "research triangle" includes
Durham and Chapel Hill. For the point, name this state which is home to the cities of Raleigh
and Charlotte.

ANSWER: North Carolina

(3)    This province's extreme north contains the Ungava Peninsula, while its south
contains the Gaspe [[gah-SPAY]] Peninsula. This province's namesake capital includes the
Plains of Abraham and is the only walled city north of Mexico in the Americas. This
province's largest city is Montreal. For the point, name this French speaking Canadian
province, its largest by area.

ANSWER: Quebec

(4)     This city's airport celebrates "Conspiracy Month" in honor of theories that allege the
airport is hiding aliens in an underground bunker. This city includes the intersection of
Interstate 25 and Interstate 70, known locally as "The Mousetrap." This city was founded at
the confluence of the South Platte River and Cherry Creek. For the point, name this "Mile
High City," the capital and largest city of Colorado.

ANSWER: Denver

(5)      This country is connected to China by the Wakhan Corridor. This country, whose
official languages are Dari and Pashto, has its southeast border at the Durand Line. This
country's Bamiyan Valley was once home to a pair of statues of the Buddha which were
destroyed by the Taliban. Linked to Pakistan via the Khyber Pass, for the point, what is this
central Asian country whose capital is Kabul?

ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
2020-21 Geography Bee One                                                            Extra Questions


(6)      This sea's easternmost arm is Bristol Bay, and this sea extends into the north as the
Gulf of Anadyr. This sea's northern end includes the Diomedes Islands, which are split by
the International Date Line. This sea is separated from the Chukchi Sea by a similarly named
strait. Bounded in the west by Kamchatka, for the point, what is this sea which separates
Alaska and Siberia?

ANSWER: Bering Sea (or Beringovo more)

(7)     This river was formerly impounded by the Keban and Karakaya Dams before the
construction of the Ataturk Dam. This river's major tributaries are the Belikh and Khabur,
and a dam along this river forms Lake Asad. The ancient town of Anah once lay next to this
river before it was destroyed by the construction of the Hadithah Dam. For the point, name
this Mesopotamian river which lies to the west of the Tigris.

ANSWER: Euphrates River

(8)      Ancient lava flows from this mountain were responsible for forming the Great
Barranco Wall. This mountain's peak is home to the Furtwangler Glacier. This mountain, the
tallest freestanding peak in the world, has three volcanic cones named Kibo, Mawenzi, and
Shira. In Swahili, this mountain is known as Uhuru. For the point, name this mountain in
Tanzania, the highest point in Africa.

ANSWER: Mount Kilimanjaro

(9)     In the 1800s, this peninsula was known by the Ottoman name of Rumellia. This
peninsula's namesake mountain range includes the mountains of Vrashka Chuka and Boltev
Peak. An eastern offshoot of this peninsula includes the European portion of Istanbul. For
the point, name this southern European peninsula which names a group of countries
including Albania and North Macedonia.

ANSWER: Balkan Peninsula (accept Balkans)
