2020-21 Geography Bee Two - 2021-03-22                                               Extra Questions



Extra Questions
Extra Questions
(1)     One location owned by this company in Hong Kong is located along Penny's Bay and
contains Inspiration Lake. One amusement park owned by this company is located near the
Maihama Station in Chiba and is named for Tokyo. Operating a pair of amusement parks in
the United States, a "Land" in Anaheim and a "World" in Orlando, for the point, what is this
entertainment company?

ANSWER: The Walt Disney Company

(2)     This island's northwest was formerly home to the now extinct Dorset Culture. This
island's official language is Kalaalisut. This island is separated from Baffin Island by the
Davis Strait and hosts the U.S.'s Thule [[TOO-lee]] Air Base. Locally governed from the city
of Nuuk, for the point, what is this dependency, the largest island on Earth?

ANSWER: Greenland (or Kalaallit Nunaat)

(3)     One of these places in Guangzhou [[GWAHNG-ZHOH]] is known for its distinctive
lighthouse and is named Huaisheng [[HWY-SHUNG]]. A building of this type called Badshahi
is located in Lahore [[lah-HOHR]]. One of these places, converted into a cathedral after the
Reconquista, was originally built by Abd al-Rahman [[abd-al-RAHK-mahn]] in Cordoba,
Spain. Sultan Ahmed I commissioned one of the places in Istanbul often named for the blue
tiling on its interior, while a "Great" one of them surrounds the Kaaba in Mecca. For the
point, name these places of worship used by Muslims for prayer.

ANSWER: Mosques (accept Masjids)

(4)     This state is home to largest mosque in the U.S. and the former River Rouge factory,
both in the Wayne County city of Dearborn. W.K. Kellogg developed corn flakes in this
state's city of Battle Creek. The Ambassador Bridge connects this state to the city of
Windsor, Ontario. This state's flagship university is located in its city of Ann Arbor, and
other major cities in this state include Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids. With its state capital at
Lansing, for the point, what is this Midwestern U.S. state, whose most populous city is
Detroit?

ANSWER: Michigan
