2020-21 Geography Bee Two - 2021-03-22                               Geography Bee Two - Round 2



Geography Bee Two - Round 2
Round 2 tossups
(1)    This autonomous community's Chinijo [[chin-EE-ho]] Archipelago lies north of
Lanzarote [[lahn-zah-RAH-tee]]. This region is the most populous archipelago in
Macaronesia. A major European tourist destination, this region's most populous island is
Tenerife [[ten-uh-REEF]]. For the point, name this Spanish island region off the
northwestern coast of Africa whose name is derived not from a type of bird, but from the
Latin word for "dog."

ANSWER: Canary Islands (or the Canaries)

(2)    This body of water is connected to the greater Pacific Ocean by the Strait of Tartary
and the La Perouse Strait. The city of Vladivostok is the main Russian port on this body of
water. The islands of Sakhalin and Hokkaido are separated from the Russian mainland by
this body of water. For the point, name this East Asian sea which separates Korea from a
namesake island nation governed from Tokyo.

ANSWER: Sea of Japan

(3)     Natural features in this territory include Alligator Lake and the Miles Canyon
Basalts. Kluane [[kloo-AH-nee]] National Park, located in this territory's southwestern
corner, is home to Mount Logan, the second tallest mountain in North America. This
territory's capital city of Whitehorse is the largest settlement in any of Canada's three
territories. For the point, name this subarctic Canadian territory bordering Alaska.

ANSWER: Yukon Territory (accept The Yukon)

(4)     Along this area in 2019, a series of hiking trails bound by barbed wire were opened
up. In May 2020, the two countries separated by this area exchanged gunfire, in violation of
a 1953 armistice. For the point, name this heavily fortified area along an East Asian
peninsula, separating two countries whose capitals are Pyongyang and Seoul.

ANSWER: DMZ (or Korean Demilitarized Zone)

(5)     This country's sole natural lake is located in an impact crater and is known as Lake
Bosumtwi. This country's Akosombo Dam forms the largest artificial lake in the world by
surface area, Lake Volta. This country's interior is home to the Ashanti people, and while
under British rule, this country was known as the Gold Coast. For the point, name this west
African country whose capital is Accra.

ANSWER: Republic of Ghana
2020-21 Geography Bee Two - 2021-03-22                                 Geography Bee Two - Round 2


(6)     This country's eponymous lake is fed by the San Juan and Tipitapa Rivers and is
separated from the Pacific Ocean by the Rivas Isthmus. The Amerrisque [[ah-mare-EE-
skay]] mountains separate that lake in this country from Lake Managua. The city of
Bluefields is the most populous in this country's Mosquito Coast region. For the point, name
this Central American country located between Honduras and Costa Rica.

ANSWER: Republic of Nicaragua

(7)     The part of this river that flows through the Guyana Highlands is called Guainía
[[gwai-NEE-uh]]. The Casiquiare [[kah-see-KYAH-reh]] canal connects this river to the
Orinoco. This river's largest confluence is in the city of Manaus [[mahn-OUSS]], where the
black water of this river meets the brown water of the Amazon. For the point, name this
tributary of the Amazon whose name in Spanish and Portuguese refers to its color.

ANSWER: Rio Negro (accept Guainía before mentioned)

(8)     Along with a namesake peninsula, this city lies on the islands of Taipa, Coloane
[[koh-loh-AH-neh]], and Hengqin [[HUNG-CHIN]]. This city is known as the “Monte Carlo of
the Orient" due to its casinos including the Venetian and the Casino Lisboa. This city is
located across the Pearl River estuary from Hong Kong. For the point, name this formerly
Portuguese-controlled Special Administrative Region of China, a global gambling center.

ANSWER: Macau Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China

(9)     In the Middle Ages, the European center for producing this good was the Italian city
of Catanzaro. James I attempted to establish production of this good in the United Kingdom
by planting 100 thousand mulberry trees at Hampton Court Palace. This good names a road
on which it was transported from China to Europe through central Asia. For the point, name
this fabric produced from the larvae of certain moths.

ANSWER: silk

(10) This river, which originates at Lake Hazar, flows through the town of Hasakeft in
Batman [[BAHT-mahn]] Province. A dam formerly named after Saddam Hussein is located
along this river near the city of Mosul. This is the easternmost of the two known rivers listed
as being in the Garden of Eden. For the point, name this river which forms the Shatt-al-Arab
at its confluence with the Euphrates.

ANSWER: Tigris River
2020-21 Geography Bee Two - 2021-03-22                                 Geography Bee Two - Round 2


(11) The crescent-shaped barchan [[baht-KHAHN]] variety of these structures have been
observed forming on Mars. The transverse variety of these structures possess a slip face,
which points away from the direction of the wind. Parabolic examples of these structures
have their arms anchored by plants. Ergs are flat landforms that often possess these
structures. For the point, name these hill-like accumulations of sand which can form on
beaches or in deserts.

ANSWER: sand dunes

(12) In this city, the Falls of Clyde, an historic sail-driven oil tanker, is docked at the old
royal pier. This city's Bishop Museum hosts the largest collection of Polynesian cultural
artifacts in the world. The Diamond Head volcanic peak, the southernmost point on the
island of O'ahu, overlooks this city's famous Waikiki Beach. For the point, name this capital
and largest city of Hawaii.

ANSWER: Honolulu

(13) The only port on this body of water in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the city of Neum.
This body of water touches six different countries, four of which were created following the
dissolution of Yugoslavia in the 1990s. The Strait of Otranto divides this body of water from
the Ionian Sea between the Balkan and Italian peninsulas. For the point, name this
European body of water, the northernmost arm of the Mediterranean Sea.

ANSWER: Adriatic Sea

(14) This mountain is separated from the Masherbrum Mountains by the Baltoro Glacier.
Achille Compagnoni [[ah-KEEL-ay kom-pah-NOH-nee]] led the first successful summit of
this mountain through the Abruzzi Spur route. This mountain is sometimes given the
nickname "Savage Mountain," but is more commonly named after its surveyor's mark. For
the point, name this Karakoram Range mountain on the China-Pakistan border, the second
tallest mountain on Earth.

ANSWER: K2 (accept Savage Mountain before mentioned)

(15) In 1793, a river which now has this name was renamed by Ontario Lieutenant
Governor John Graves Simcoe from the Ojibwe name, Deshkan Ziibi [[DESH-kahn zee-EE-
bee]]. Another river with this name is sourced from the Cotswolds and flows through
Oxford, where it is known locally as "The Isis." That river with this name flows into the
North Sea after passing under Tower Bridge. For the point, give this name of the principal
river in London.

ANSWER: Thames River (accept River Thames; prompt on "Isis" before mentioned)
2020-21 Geography Bee Two - 2021-03-22                                Geography Bee Two - Round 2


(16) Off the southern coast of this peninsula is found the Isla de Las Palomas, home to the
Punta de Tarifa. This peninsula's northern end is the Punta de Estaca de Bares, which
divides the Cantabrian Sea from the Bay of Biscay. The Strait of Gibraltar separates this
peninsula from Morocco. For the point, name this southwestern European peninsula, which
includes the southern portion of France and all Portugal and Spain.

ANSWER: Iberian Peninsula

(17) This country's Danakil Depression contains unique extremophile microbes, and in
1973, archaeologists in this country's Afar region discovered the fossilized skeletal remains
of Lucy, a female Australopithecus. This country has sustained various border disputes with
its neighbors, including Somalia, Sudan, and Eritrea. For the point, name this landlocked
country in the Horn of Africa whose capital is Addis Ababa.

ANSWER: Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia

(18) The highest point of this country's Chin state is Nat Ma Taung, which lies in the
Arakan Mountains. This country's southeast is home to the Mergui Archipelago as well as
the Tavoy delta. This country's principal river is the Irrawaddy, and this country began
moving its capital to Naypyidaw in 2005. For the point, name this southeast Asian country,
home to the cities of Mandalay and Yangon.

ANSWER: Republic of the Union of Myanmar (accept Burma)

(19) This country's city of Iquitos is one of the most isolated in the world, being most
accessible only by river and air. This country's Moche [[MOH-chay]] Valley is home to the
ruins of the pre-Columbian city of Chan Chan. This country's ancient inhabitants built the
still visible Nazca Lines. This country contains the ruins of Incan cities such as Machu
Picchu. For the point, name this Andean country in South America, whose capital is Lima.

ANSWER: Republic of Peru

(20) The U.S. federal government withheld funds for this infrastructure system to states
which did not comply with its order to standardize the legal drinking age of 21. The original
purpose of this system was to allow the American military to mobilize more effectively in
the event of a Soviet attack. For the point, name this network of large roads whose
construction began under the Eisenhower administration.

ANSWER: U.S. Interstate Highway System (accept Interstate[/s]; accept Dwight D.
Eisenhower National System of [a]Interstate and Defense Highways; prompt on
"Highway" or similar answers)
2020-21 Geography Bee Two - 2021-03-22                                  Geography Bee Two - Round 2


(21) This country's Adige [[ah-DEE-jeh]] River feeds Lake Reschen, an artificial lake in
the region of South Tyrol. World-renowned wine grapes are grown along this country's
Piave [[pee-AH-veh]] River, which drains into the sea at the town of Cortellazzo [[kor-tel-
AHT-soh]]. This country's longest river is the Po, which begins in the Cottian Alps and
terminates south of Venice. For the point, name this southern European country commonly
compared in shape to a boot.

ANSWER: Italy (or Italian Republic)

(22) The island nation of Niue [[NOO-ay]] is in free association with this other country,
which also administers Tokelau. This country's two main islands are separated by the Cook
Strait. This country was formerly home to the moa, which was hunted to extinction by the
native Maori people. For the point, name this island nation, home to the cities of
Christchurch, Wellington, and Auckland.

ANSWER: New Zealand (or Aotearoa)

(23) A soup associated with this state is commonly made with filé [[FEE-lay]] powder, a
spice containing sassafras and okra. Onion, celery, and green bell pepper comprise the so-
called "Holy Trinity" of this state's traditional cuisine. This state accounts for 90-95 percent
of the U.S.'s crawfish production. For the point, name this state, whose Cajun and Creole
food cultures are centered on Baton Rouge and New Orleans.

ANSWER: Louisiana

(24) This peninsula's highest point is Roman-Kosh, which is part of this peninsula's
namesake mountains. This peninsula is connected to the mainland via the Isthmus of
Perekop. This peninsula is governed from the city of Simferopol and also includes the port
of Sevastopol. For the point, name this peninsula located between the Sea of Azov and the
Black Sea, the subject of an ongoing territorial dispute between Russia and Ukraine.

ANSWER: Crimean Peninsula (accept Tauric Peninsula)

(25) One of these locations in Vancouver is home to a Bill Reid statue often called The
Jade Canoe. One of these locations in Denver is home to a fiberglass statue aptly titled Blue
Mustang. One of these locations designed by Renzo Piano was built on an artificial island in
Osaka and is named Kansai International. For the point, name these travel hubs which
include Narita in Tokyo and O'Hare in Chicago.

ANSWER: Airports (accept Vancouver International Airport; accept Denver International
Airport)
2020-21 Geography Bee Two - 2021-03-22                                Geography Bee Two - Round 2


(26) This country's largest island is combined with 32 other islands off its southwest
coast to form its namesake province of Phuket [[poo-KET]]. This country is home to the
Chao Phraya [[chow PRAI-uh]] River, which discharges into this country's namesake gulf.
After 1932, this country ceased to be known as Siam. For the point, name this southeast
Asian nation whose capital and largest city is Bangkok.

ANSWER: Kingdom of Thailand

(27) This river's delta hosts the cities of Damietta and Kafr El-Shaikh [[KAH-fer el-
SHAKE]]. This river is prevented from flooding by the Aswan Dam, whose construction
between 1958 and 1970 created Lake Nasser. The source of this river's Blue branch is Lake
Tana, while this river's White branch begins at Lake No. Major cities along this river include
Khartoum and Luxor. For the point, name this longest river in Africa which flows through
Sudan and Egypt.

ANSWER: Nile River

(28) This city's Kavanagh Building, built in the barrio of Retiro, was the tallest building in
Latin America in 1936. This city's Plaza de Mayo is home to a presidential mansion known
as the Casa Rosada, or Pink House. Residents of this city are known as Porteños. This city
lies on the western shore of the Río de la Plata, across from Montevideo, Uruguay. For the
point, name this capital city of Argentina.

ANSWER: Buenos Aires

(29) This city's Abraj Al Bait skyscraper complex is home to the world's largest clock
face. This Hejazi city only allows Muslims to enter it. One pilgrimage to this city involves
drinking from the Zamzam Well and running between the hills of Safa and Marwah. For the
point, name this Saudi Arabian city, the home of the Kabba and the holiest city in Islam.

ANSWER: Mecca (or Makkah al Mukarramah)

(30) In 1898 in this state, Olof Öhman unearthed the Kensington Runestone in Douglas
County. Iron ore sourced from this state's Mesabi and Vermilion ranges is primarily shipped
via the port city of Duluth. This state is home to Lake Itasca, the source of the Mississippi
River. For the point, name this Midwestern state whose largest cities are St. Paul and
Minneapolis.

ANSWER: Minnesota
2020-21 Geography Bee Two - 2021-03-22                              Geography Bee Two - Round 2


Extra Question
(1)     This island's native ethnic groups are divided into Highland and Coastal peoples,
such as the Merina and Antaifasy respectively. This country's primary seaport is the Indian
Ocean city of Toamasina. This island's capital and largest city is Antananarivo and it is
separated from the mainland by the Mozambique Channel. For the point, name this largest
African island, the only natural homeland of lemurs.

ANSWER: Madagascar
