2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1V (7) - 2022-04-01                                        Round 1



Round 1
Before Round 1 - please use these Practice Questions for the students to practice with the
buzzers! These questions do NOT count towards scoring for the round.

Practice Question A - This country installed the world’s largest hydroelectric dam, the
Three Gorges Dam, along its Yangtze River. The Gobi Desert stretches between this
country and Mongolia. For the point, name this country whose “Great Wall” spans its
northern border near Beijing.

ANSWER: China (or Zhōngguó; accept People’s Republic of China; or Zhōnghuá
Rénmín Gònghéguó)

Practice Question B - An engineer who worked on the Statue of Liberty constructed a
namesake tower in this city. This city includes the Place Charles de Gaulle, at the center of
which is the Arc de Triomphe. The Louvre Museum is located in, for the point, what capital
of France?

ANSWER: Paris

Practice Question C - This river originates from the Andes Mountain and empties into the
Atlantic Ocean. Countries that surround this river include Bolivia, Ecuador, and Brazil. For
the point, what is the longest river in South America and shares its name with a massive
rainforest?

ANSWER: Amazon River

Once you have finished with the practice questions, make sure all of the students in the
room understand how the round will work and then proceed as usual. Remember, these
do NOT count towards any scores for the round!
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1V (7) - 2022-04-01                                           Round 1


Regulation Tossups

(1)    This mountain range's volcano of Licancabur recorded the world's highest UV index
in 2003, and this mountain range contains the world's highest permanent settlement at La
Rinconada [[REEN-co-nada]]. This range passes by a lake known either as Lake O'Higgins or
Lake San Martin near the province of Santa Cruz. For the point, name this South American
mountain range home to Aconcagua.

ANSWER: Andes Mountains (accept Andean Mountains)

(2)    The house used for the filming of A Christmas Story is located in this city where the
Cuyahoga [[KYE-uh-hoe-guh]] River caught fire in 1969. That river in this city empties into
Lake Erie near the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. For the point, name this Ohio city that recently
changed the name of its baseball team after years of protest from indigenous Americans.

ANSWER: Cleveland

(3)     The eastern half of this country includes the Delta Amacuro where the Orinoco River
enters into the Atlantic. This country is home to the world's largest proven oil reserves, which
are mostly concentrated near Lake Maracaibo. Angel Falls is located in, for the point, what
South American country that contains Caracas and is bordered by Colombia and Guyana?

ANSWER: Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela (or Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela)

(4)     This city's suburbs include the 6th of October City, which is connected by the Arab
World’s oldest metro system. Protests in this city's Tahrir Square resulted in the resignation
of President Hosni [[HOHS-nee]] Mubarak [[moo-BAHR-ick]]. For the point, name this city
located on the Nile River, the capital of Egypt.

ANSWER: Cairo (accept al-Qāhirah)


(5)     Levent is the main business district of this city where the Topkapi Palace is located
near the junction of the Golden Horn with the Bosporus. This city contains the Hagia [[HAH
ghee-uh]] Sophia and the Blue Mosque, and it was formerly known as Byzantium. For the
point, name this largest city of Turkey.

ANSWER: Istanbul (accept Constantinople; accept Byzantium before mentioned)

(6)     This resource is sought by companies such as Riot Whinstone who operate mines that
are putting a strain on Texas's ERCOT power grid. In 2021, Nayib Bukele made this resource
the official currency of El Salvador along with the U.S. Dollar, and Colonial Pipeline paid a
ransom in this currency following a 2021 cyberattack. For the point, identify this
cryptocurrency symbolized by a stylized B.

ANSWER: Bitcoin (prompt on "Cryptocurrency" or similar)

(7)   The country's Farasan Islands are accessible from Jizan [[JUH-zen]], and its Aramco
company operates the world's largest oil field. This country has been building the Jeddah
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1V (7) - 2022-04-01                                          Round 1


Tower since 2013, and its almost completely uninhabited southeast is known as the Rub
[[ROOB]] Al Khali [[AWL-kah-lee]], or Empty Quarter. For the point, name this Arab country
that contains Mecca and the capital city of Riyadh.

ANSWER: Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (accept Al Mamlakah al Arabiyah as Suudiyah; prompt
on "Arabia")

(8)    This country's flag features a golden steppe eagle representing Tengri on a sky-blue
backdrop. This northernmost Muslim-majority country was the second-largest Soviet
Republic, and it changed the name of its capital Astana to Nur-Sultan. For the point, name this
country that borders China and the Caspian Sea.

ANSWER: Republic of Kazakhstan (accept Qazaqstan Respublikasy)

(9)     This country's control of the Pitcairn Islands means at least one of its territories
always experiences sunlight. This country maintains control over the Turks and Caicos
Islands, and residents of the overseas Falklands territory voted overwhelmingly to remain
part of this country. For the point, name this European country that controls Bermuda and a
namesake collection of Virgin Islands.

ANSWER: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (accept either answer, or
UK; prompt on "Britain" alone; do not accept or prompt on "England")

(10) This island's special region of Yogyakarta [[jog-JUH-cart-uh]] is still ruled by a Sultan,
and a strait separates Madura from this island's city of Surabaya [[SOO-ruh-bye yah]]. This
island is bounded to Sumatra by the Sunda Strait, which is home to the volcano Krakatoa
[[KRAH-KUH-tow-uh]]. For the point, identify this Indonesian island that lends its name to a
type of computer language and a slang term for coffee.

ANSWER: Java (or Jawa)

(11) National Park (prompt on "Smoky Mountains" or "The Smokies") This lake split
between El Dorado and Washoe counties drains into Pyramid Lake via the Truckee River.
This lake is the most voluminous body of water in the Great Basin, and it is also North
America's largest alpine lake. For the point, name this lake located between Nevada and
California.

ANSWER: Lake Tahoe (accept Dáʔaw)

(12) Prudhoe Bay is the center of this state's oil-rich "North Slope" that has its borough
seat at Barrow. Fairbanks is the largest inland city of this state, which is home to North
America’s highest peak at Denali. For the point, name this largest U.S. state governed from
Juneau.

ANSWER: Alaska

(13) This country disputes the Paracel Islands with China, and its capital is served by the
port of Haiphong [[HYE-FONG]]. This country's city of Hue [[HOO-ay]] was the capital of the
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1V (7) - 2022-04-01                                       Round 1


Nguyen [[NOO-wen]] Dynasty, and this country experienced the Tet Offensive in 1968. For
the point, name this country home to Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City.

ANSWER: Socialist Republic of Vietnam (accept SRV; accept Cong Hoa Xa Hoi Chu Nghia Viet
Nam)

(14) The greatest concentrated number of these facilities in a non-capital city is centered
in Tel Aviv. A "Row" of these facilities stretches along Massachusetts Avenue in Washington,
DC. The American bombing of one of these facilities in Belgrade led to Jim Sasser being
trapped in another one of these facilities in Beijing. For the point, name these diplomatic
facilities that are superior to consulates.

ANSWER: Embassies (prompt on "Diplomatic Missions;" prompt on "Foreign Missions;”
prompt on similar answers; do NOT accept "Consulates")

(15) This city administers the Bonin Islands, and its metropolitan area includes the largest
non-American Disney Resort. Ginza is a popular shopping district in this city that was known
as Edo before it became the capital of the Tokugawa [[TOE-kuh-GAH-wa]] Shogunate
[["SHOW"-guh-"knit"]]. For the point, name this Japanese city, the largest in the world.

ANSWER: Tokyo Metropolis (accept Edo before mentioned)


(16) This region's formerly disputed island Isla de Aves was once inhabited by the Taino
[[tah-EE-noh]] people. This region is home to large resorts such as Paradise Island and Cruz
Bay, and it culturally includes the nations of Suriname, Guyana, and Belize. For the point,
name this island region between the U.S., Mexico, and South America with a namesake sea
that contains Jamaica.

ANSWER: Caribbean (accept West Indies; accept Karayib, Caribe, or similar; prompt on
"North America" or "Latin America")

(17) This country's city of Davos hosts the World Economic Forum. This country's region
of Valais [[VEH-lay]] contains the resort Zermatt [[ZEHR-maht]] and the Great St Bernard
Pass, which separates the watersheds of the Rhône and Po Rivers. 26 administrative regions
known as cantons divide, for the point, what famously neutral country that contains Geneva
and Zurich?

ANSWER: Switzerland (accept Swiss Confederation; accept Schweizerische
Eidgenossenschaft; accept Confederation Suisse; accept Confederazione Svizzera; accept
Confederaziun Svizra; accept Confoederatio Helvetica)



(18) This city's Jamaica Bay contains the second least-used station of its subway network,
which also connects to Howard Beach. Hart Island is a mass grave in this city where burials
are conducted by inmates from the correctional institution Rikers Island. Exclaves of this
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1V (7) - 2022-04-01                                             Round 1


populous city can be found on Ellis Island and Liberty Island. For the point, name this city
that includes Brooklyn and Manhattan.

ANSWER: New York City (accept NYC)

(19) This city is the capital of Lazio [[LOTs-ee-OH]], and its Ponte Sant'Angelo contains ten
statues of angels on it. This city has forbidden tourists from sitting on its Spanish Steps, and
this city's Pantheon has survived largely intact for 2,000 years. This city is the capital closest
to another country's capital, which it completely encloses and borders along Saint Peter’s
Square. For the point, name this capital of Italy.

ANSWER: Rome (or Roma)


(20) This country's Union Territories include Puducherry [[POOD-uh-CHEER-ee]] and
Ladakh. The Thar Desert makes up the western boundary of this country where Sino Tibetan,
Andamanese, and Dravidian Languages are spoken. The states of Rajasthan [[RAH juh-STON]]
and Uttar [[OO-tarr]] Pradesh are located in, for the point, what subcontinental country with
its capital at New Delhi?

ANSWER: Republic of India (accept Bharatiya Ganarajya)

(21) These types of landforms are studied by orographers. Cols and notches are areas that
can be found between these landforms that are measured in prominence. Examples of these
landforms in California include ones named Shasta and Whitney. For the point, name these
landforms, the highest of which is Everest.

ANSWER: Mountains (accept Peaks; accept Mountain Ranges)

(22) This city is the northern terminus of Amtrak's Adirondack Route, and buildings in this
city are forbidden from exceeding the height of its namesake peak between the Laurentian
and Appalachian Ranges. This city lies at the confluence of the Ottawa and St. Lawrence
rivers, and it is the largest Francophone city in the Americas. For the point, name this largest
city of Quebec.

ANSWER: Montréal

(23) This language is divided into high, middle, and low divisions by the Benrath and
Speyer lines. This language has official status in Italy's South Tyrol region, and its Sprachraum
includes Liechtenstein, Styria, Salzburg, and other states in Austria. For the point, name this
language spoken in Frankfurt and Berlin.

ANSWER: German (or Deutsch)



(24) This country's city of Ifran recorded Africa's coldest temperature in 1935. This
country’s highest peak of Toubkal is located in the Atlas Mountains, and the Alboran Sea is
the site of occasional skirmishes between this country and Spain. This country left the African
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1V (7) - 2022-04-01                                           Round 1


Union after disputes over its ownership of Western Sahara. For the point, name this country
that contains Tangier [[tan-ZHEER]] and Casablanca.

ANSWER: Kingdom of Morocco (accept Al Mamlakah al Maghribiyah)

(25) This city's Ap Lei Chau [[app LAY CHOW]] is the most densely populated island in
Asia. This city and special administrative region operates under the "One Country, Two
Systems" policy along with nearby Macau. For the point, name this city, a former British
colony in China.

ANSWER: Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China
(accept HKSAR)

(26) This U.S. state's Park City is located in the Wasatch Range, which hosted some events
of the 2002 Winter Olympics. This state's town of Moab [[MO-ab]] on the Colorado River is a
gateway to Canyonlands and Arches National Parks. The majority of this state’s population
are members of the Church of Latter-Day Saints, or Mormons. For the point, name this state
home to the Great Salt Lake.

ANSWER: Utah

(27) This city's Green Zone contains the world's largest American Embassy, the target of
multiple attacks after Qasem [[KAH-sim]] Soleimani's assassination. This city was the capital
of the Abbasid [[AH-buh-sid]] Caliphate until a Mongol siege in 1258 destroyed this city’s
House of Wisdom. This city built on the ruins of Babylon is the largest on the Tigris River. For
the point, name this capital of Iraq.

ANSWER: Baghdad

(28) This park's entrances of Gatlinburg and Cherokee are connected by the Newfound
Gap, and its summit of Clingman's Dome is the highest peak on the Appalachian Trail. This
location is the most-visited national park in the United States, possibly due to its proximity
to attractions such as Dollywood. For the point, name this national park shared between
North Carolina and Tennessee.

ANSWER: Great Smoky Mountains

(29) This U.S. state's Carhenge is a tourist attraction located at the western end of the Sand
Hills. This state contains Scotts Bluff, which was a major landmark on the Oregon Trail, and
is located along the North Platte River in this state. This only triply landlocked state borders
Missouri and Wyoming. The cities of Bellevue and Lincoln are located in, for the point, what
Midwestern state that contains Omaha?

ANSWER: Nebraska

(30) This country's Lake Wakatipu [[WAH-kuh-TEE-poo]] in the Southern Alps contains
the adventure sports hub of Queenstown on its shores. A strait that separates this country’s
North and South Islands is named for James Cook. For the point, name this country inhabited
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1V (7) - 2022-04-01                                           Round 1


by the Maori [[MOW-ree]] that contains the cities Wellington and Auckland.

ANSWER: New Zealand (accept NZ; accept Aotearoa)



Extra Questions
(1)     This city is home to Europe's tallest building, the Lakhta Center, and it is situated on
the Neva River. Vasilyevsky Island is administered by this city that was built on a captured
Swedish fortress. This city contains an expansive art museum known as the Hermitage, and
former names of this city include Petrograd and Leningrad. For the point, name this second-
largest city in Russia after Moscow.

ANSWER: Saint Petersburg (accept Petrograd or Leningrad before mentioned)

(2)      This city's Spree River contains the Bode-Museum [[BOW-duh]], the Pergamon
Museum, and the Egyptian division of the Neues [[NOY-iss]] Museum. The Tiergarten is a park
in this city that also contains landmarks such as the Brandenburg Gate and the Reichstag. For
the point, name this German city formerly divided into Communist and Capitalist sides by a
namesake wall.

ANSWER: Berlin
