2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V (7)- 2022-04-04                                           Finals



Finals
Regulation Tossups
(1)     This island's Mataveri International Airport is the world's most remote commercial
airport. This island's natives were the frequent target of Peruvian slave raiders, and local
names for this island include Isla de Pascua and Rapa Nui. This island can be considered both
the westernmost point of South America, and the easternmost point of Polynesia. For the
point, name this island owned by Chile, known for its moai [[MOW-"eye"]] statues with large
heads.

ANSWER: Easter Island (accept Isla de Pascua or Rapa Nui until mentioned)

(2)     This river that receives the Clearwater and Salmon Rivers is dammed near Pocatello,
creating the American Falls Reservoir. The Shoshone [[shuh-SHOW-nee]] live along this river
that flows through Hells Canyon, the deepest river gorge in the U.S. This river has its source
in Yellowstone National Park, and it is the longest tributary of the Columbia. For the point,
identify this river that travels past Boise on its way through Idaho.

ANSWER: Snake River

(3)     The first man to deliberately plan this type of journey was Thomas Cavendish. The
first underwater type of this journey was completed by the USS Triton as part of Operation
Sandblast. The Marianas were termed the "Islands of Thieves" during one of these journeys
that began and ended in Seville and inspired Jules Verne. For the point, name this type of
journey first completed by Ferdinand Magellan.

ANSWER: Circumnavigation (accept reasonable equivalents relating the Global Crossing;
accept anything that mentions traveling around the globe)

(4)     This river's source is Lake Tear of the Clouds on Mount Marcy. This river was first
observed by Europeans when Giovanni da Verrazzano laid eyes on it in 1524, 85 years before
it was spotted by its namesake. The Tappan Zee is the widest point of this river, which is
crossed by the Mario Cuomo Bridge and originates in the Adirondack Mountains. For the
point, name this river that empties into New York Harbor.

ANSWER: Hudson River

(5)     This island's eastern ports include Bastia and Porto-Vecchio [[port-o VEH-kee-oh]].
This island's highest peak is Monte Cinto, and this island is home to a Ligurian-speaking
community at Bonifacio. Ajaccio [[uh-YAH-chee-oh]] is the largest city of this island, which
was transferred from the Republic of Genoa to King Louis XV [[the FIFTEENTH]] in 1769.
Napoleon was born on, for the point, what largest island of European France?

ANSWER: Corsica (accept Corse; accept Còrsega)
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V (7)- 2022-04-04                                                 Finals


(6)     This mountain is the tallest feature on the Hamakua Coast, and it is the second-highest
island peak on Earth with a height of over 33,000 feet when measured from its base on the
ocean floor. Kailua-Kona is visible from the summit of this mountain, which is 125 feet higher
than neighboring Mauna Loa. For the point, name this volcano, Hawaii's highest peak.

ANSWER: Mauna Kea

(7)      This city's Cathedral of Learning overlooks Schenley Park, which is home to Carnegie
Mellon University. This city's Point State Park contains a granite outline of the former French
Fort Duquesne, located at the confluence of the Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers, which
form the Ohio River. For the point, name this largest city of western Pennsylvania, known for
its steel industry.

ANSWER: Pittsburgh

(8)     This bay is the world's largest by area, and it includes the coastline of Odisha and
Andhra Pradesh. The Sentinelese make their home on North Sentinel Island in this bay that
also contains the Andaman Islands. For the point, name this bay between India and Myanmar
with a name similar to that of a country governed from Dhaka.

ANSWER: Bay of Bengal

(9)      This country's narrowest portion is on the Isthmus of Kra which separates the
Andaman Sea in the west from this country's namesake gulf in the east. This country is known
for its strict lese majeste [[lezh muh-ZHEST]] laws, and it formerly acted as a buffer between
the British Raj and French Indochina. This country home to the island of Phuket [[poo-KET]]
was previously known as Siam. For the point, name this country governed from Bangkok.

ANSWER: Kingdom of Thailand (accept Ratcha Anachak Thai or Prathet Thai; accept Siam
until mentioned)

(10) This U.S. state's largest lake is Lake Sardis. Southaven, Natchez, and Hattiesburg are
cities in this state that is also home to casinos in Biloxi. In 2021, this state adopted a "Magnolia
Flag" to replace a previous flag that displayed the Confederate emblem. Jackson is the capital
of, for the point, what U.S. state that names a major American river?

ANSWER: Mississippi

(11) This region's Kolyma Highway was built by laborers who died creating a route from
Magadan to Yakutsk. The Ob, Yenisei, and Lena are the three major rivers of this region whose
largest port of Vladivostok is the terminus of the world's longest railway. For the point, name
this remote region of Russia known for its harsh winters and home to the town of
Novosibirsk.

ANSWER: Siberia (accept Sibir Khanate)
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V (7)- 2022-04-04                                            Finals


(12) This archipelago's island of La Gomera is known for its Silbo language, which
incorporates whistles. This archipelago contains the island of La Palma, and it was once the
home of the lost Guanches People. The volcano Tiede [[tee-AY-day]] rises above this
archipelago's largest and most populous island, Tenerife. For the point, name this Spanish
archipelago off the African coast named for a colony of dogs, not colorful birds.

ANSWER: Canary Islands (accept Las Canarias; accept Canaries)

(13) PanAm Airlines was founded in this city, the seat of Monroe County. This city was the
capital of the Conch Republic, a farcical micronation created as a practical joke in 1982. The
Seven Mile Bridge is part of the Overseas Highway that terminates in this city along with US
Route 1. The southernmost point of the continental United States is located in, for the point,
what city in the Florida Keys?

ANSWER: Key West (accept Cayo Hueso)

(14) This region which includes cities like Menton and Toulon has been the home of the
Grimaldi family for more than 700 years. This European region's westernmost extremity is
marked by the Rhône River, and its city of Cannes [["CAN"]] hosts a world-renowned film
festival. Saint-Tropez [[SAN tro-PAY]] is a popular tourist destination in, for the point, what
French vacation region near the Italian Border, home to Nice [[NEESE]]?

ANSWER: French Riviera (accept Riviera after mention of "French;" accept Provence-Alpes-
Côte d'Azur)

(15) This country's Dulce River drains the Izabal Department, which is home to a Garifuna
Community at Livingston. This country that displays two rifles topped by a resplendent
quetzal [[KET-zull]] on its flag contains the ancient Maya city of Tikal in its north. For the
point, name this Central American country bordered to the east by Belize, and to the north by
Mexico.

ANSWER: Republic of Guatemala (accept Republica de Guatemala)

(16) This country's northeast contains the Gulf of Hammamet, and its island of Djerba
contains the El-Ghriba Synagogue. Much of the Star Wars series was filmed in this country's
Tataouine Governorate, known for its Berber cave dwellings. The eastern end of the Atlas
Mountains and the ruins of Carthage are contained in, for the point, what North African
country between Libya and Algeria?

ANSWER: Republic of Tunisia (accept Al Jumhuriyah at Tunisiyah)

(17) New Zealand's Chatham Rise borders one of these features called Hikurangi, which is
located near a much larger one of these features named Kermadec. Richards Deep is a location
within, for the point, what type of submarine feature, the most notable of which, the Marianas,
contains the lowest point on Earth, Challenger Deep?

ANSWER: Oceanic Trench
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V (7)- 2022-04-04                                              Finals


(18) The Amal Movement and Hezbollah are two of this country's recognized political
parties. An alliance in this country is named after the date of its Cedar Revolution. Syria and
Israel have long exerted control over, for the point, what Middle Eastern country governed
from Beirut?

ANSWER: Lebanon (accept Lebanese Republic; accept Al Jumhuriyah al Lubnaniyah)

(19) An act named for this resource led to the United States claiming Jarvis Island, and that
act is the subject of an ongoing dispute between the U.S. and Haiti over Navassa Island. The
Confederacy countered Union blockades by harvesting this resource from bats, though it is
traditionally sourced from species like the Peruvian booby. Nitrogen, phosphates, and
potassium comprise, for the point, what manure-like resource made from bird excrement and
used as fertilizer?

ANSWER: Guano (prompt on Bird and/or Bat "Manure," "Fertilizer," or "Excrement" until
mentioned; prompt on "Manure," "Fertilizer," or "Excrement" alone before mentioned)

(20) This city was formerly known as Yathrib, and the battles of Uhud and Badr were both
fought near this city. This city is the southern terminus of the Hejaz railway where the first
Friday Prayers were held at Quba [[KOO-buh]] Mosque. This city is home to the Al-Masjid an-
Nabawi, or the Prophet's Mosque, named for Muhammad, who travelled to this city during
the Hijra [[HEE-zrah]]. For the point, name this second-holiest city of Islam.

ANSWER: Medina (accept Al Madinah Al Munawwarah)

(21) The "Knowledge Corridor" extends along this river's valley from Springfield to a city
nicknamed the "Insurance Capital of the World." Dartmouth University lies on this river that
forms the Vermont-New Hampshire boundary. For the point, name this longest river named
for a state in New England, which flows past Hartford.

ANSWER: Connecticut River

(22) This country's highest peak of Huascaran is the highest point in the Tropics. This
country is home to the ancient Nazca Lines, which are known for their portrayal of animals
and plants. This country shares Lake Titicaca with Bolivia, and its city of Cusco was the capital
of the Inca Empire. For the point, name this country that contains Lima.

ANSWER: Republic of Peru (accept Republica del Peru)

(23) The late Prince Phillip was born in this country at the villa of Mon Repos [[mon ray-
POE]] on the island of Corfu. This country's Peloponnese peninsula is technically made an
island by the Corinth Canal, and this country controls an island home to the ruins of Knossos.
The large island of Crete is controlled by, for the point, what country home to Mount Olympus
and governed from Athens?

ANSWER: Greece (accept Hellenic Republic or Elliniki Dimokratia; accept Ellas or Ellada)
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V (7)- 2022-04-04                                                Finals


(24) This country's tourist resorts include locations on the Samana Peninsula and the
municipality of La Romana, and it contains the lowest point of any oceanic island at Lake
Enriquillo [[en-RAY-kee-yoh]]. This country's highest mountain is Pico Duerte [[DWARE-
tay]], and it contains the oldest continuously inhabited European settlement in the Americas.
Punta Cana and Santo Domingo are located in, for the point, what Caribbean country that
occupies Hispaniola's eastern portion?

ANSWER: Dominican Republic (accept Republica Dominicana or DR; accept La
Dominicana)

(25) This country's Cap-Vert peninsula contains the African Renaissance Monument, as
well as the island of Gorée [[GORE-ray]], which was once the center of a roaring slave trade
off this country's shores. Wolof is the main language of this country that contains the city of
Saint-Louis, located southwest of Mauritania. This country, Africa's westernmost, has its
capital at Dakar. For the point, name this country that almost totally encases The Gambia.

ANSWER: Republic of Senegal (accept Republique du Senegal)

(26) The Skylon Tower is an observation area that overlooks this feature. The three major
components of this feature are called American, Horseshoe, and Bridal Veil. This feature is
fed by a namesake river that forms part of a border with the province of Ontario. A cat
belonging to Annie Taylor was one of the first to use a barrel when going over, for the point,
what massive series of waterfalls in upstate New York?

ANSWER: Niagara Falls (accept Niagara River before "three major components")

(27) Tourists to this city can visit Hunt's Tomb in Papago Park, where many saguaro [[suh-
WAHR-oh]] cacti are grown. This city is served by Sky Harbor Airport, and it lies in the Valley
of the Sun, which is part of a larger region that contains the confluence of the Salt and Gila
[[HEE-la]] Rivers. Suburbs of this city and seat of Maricopa County include Mesa, Tempe, and
Glendale. For the point, name this capital of Arizona.

ANSWER: Phoenix

(28) This city is home to the world's largest seaplane base, which is located at the meeting
point of the Knik and Turnagain Arms and the Cook Inlet. That base in this city is located in
the same complex as a park which honors victims of the 1964 Good Friday Earthquake that
struck this city. This city's airport, the world's fourth-busiest by cargo traffic, was renamed
to honor Senator Ted Stevens in 2000. For the point, name this largest city of Alaska.

ANSWER: Anchorage

(29) This country contains the self-governing entity of Brcko [[BURCH-kow]], and this
country's city of Neum is the only port on its 12 miles of coastline. Attractions in this country's
capital include the Zetra Olympic Hall, which hosted events during the 1984 Winter Olympics.
This country's city of Mostar is known for its Ottoman-era Old Bridge, which was destroyed
in 1993 by Croatian forces. For the point, name this country with its capital at Sarajevo.
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V (7)- 2022-04-04                                              Finals


ANSWER: Bosnia and Herzegovina (prompt on "Bosnia;" accept Bosna i Hercegovina or
BiH)

(30) This sea's shores include the former Portuguese trading outposts of Daman and
Calicut. The Kathiawar and Musandam Peninsulas jut into this sea where the dragon blood
tree is endemic to Socotra. The Gulf of Aden is the westernmost extent of this sea, which is
connected to the Red Sea through the Bab-el-Mandeb. For the point, name this sea between
India, Africa, and a namesake peninsula.

ANSWER: Arabian Sea (accept Bahr al-Arab)

Extra Questions
(1)      This U.S. state's city of Bentonville is the headquarters of the world's largest company
by revenue. This state contains Crater of Diamonds State park, as well as the town of Hope.
Bill Clinton was born in this state and grew up in its city of Hot Springs. For the point, name
this U.S. state governed from Little Rock.

ANSWER: Arkansas

(2)     This city contains the Tuileries [[TOO-luh-ree]] Garden and the Luxembourg Garden,
which is a short walk from the Panthéon [[PON-tay-on]], a monument in the Latin Quarter
that houses the tombs of Voltaire and Louis Braille. The Pont Neuf is the oldest bridge of this
city that is divided into twenty arrondissements [[ahh-RON-dee-suh-MONTS]]. For the point,
name this city on the River Seine [[SEN]], home to the Arc de Triomphe and Eiffel Tower.

ANSWER: Paris
