2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V (7) - 2022-04-04                                          Round 2



Round 2
Regulation Tossups
(1)     The Rene Magritte Museum is located in this city, which is largely French-speaking
despite being surrounded by a Flemish-speaking population. This city is sometimes called the
"Capital of Europe" because it contains the headquarters of NATO and the EU. Martial arts
star Jean-Claude Van Damme is humorously known as the "Muscles from" this city. For the
point, name this capital of Belgium and namesake of a type of sprout.

ANSWER: Brussels (accept Bruxelles)

(2)     The Rouge Complex is contained within this U.S. city's suburb of Dearborn. This
largest U.S. city to ever file for bankruptcy is the seat of Wayne County, and the Ambassador
Bridge, the busiest U.S.-Canadian border crossing, connects this city to Windsor. For the point,
name this largest city of Michigan, the historical center of the American automotive industry.

ANSWER: Detroit

(3)     This city home to the Mamilla Mall was the first qibla [[KIB-luh]], and it is overlooked
by the Mount of Olives. The King David Hotel is the flagship hotel of this city, which also
contains the Via Dolorosa. This city contains the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, which was
allegedly the site of Jesus's crucifixion. For the point, name this de facto capital of Israel,
Judaism's holiest city.

ANSWER: Jerusalem

(4)    Bokmål [[BOOK-mawl]], or "Book Tongue," is the official written standard of this
country's language. This country's city of Bergen was the northernmost member of the
Hanseatic League, and this country has Europe's longest coastline thanks to its many fjords
[[FYORDS]]. For the point, name this country with capital at Oslo.

ANSWER: Kingdom of Norway (accept Kongeriket Norge)

(5)     George Washington was inaugurated at Federal Hall on this street which contains a
building that once housed the Manhattan Company. This street and center of its city's
financial district took its name from New Amsterdam's northern boundary. For the point,
name this street home to the New York Stock Exchange that is often used to generally refer
to the American financial industry.

ANSWER: Wall Street
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V (7) - 2022-04-04                                           Round 2


(6)     In the U.S. Navy, sailors who have crossed this geographic feature are nicknamed Sons
of Neptune. This geographic feature meets the Prime Meridian at a fictitious point called "Null
Island" and passes 15 miles north of Quito. For the point, name this imaginary line that passes
through Kenya, Indonesia, and Brazil and divides the world into northern and southern
halves.

ANSWER: Equator (also accept 0 Degrees Latitude)

(7)     This city's World Financial Center is the world's tallest building with a hole in it, and
its skyline can be identified by the rocket-like Oriental Pearl TV Tower. This city located
between the states of Jiangsu and Zhejiang [[juh-JIANG]] is the world's busiest container port,
and it is located at the mouth of the Yangtze River. For the point, name this largest city of
China.

ANSWER: Shanghai

(9)     This country's border with Peru is the location of the world's highest navigable lake.
This country became the largest landlocked country of the Americas after losing its coastline
in the War of the Pacific. For the point, name this country with dual capitals at La Paz and
Sucre

ANSWER: Plurinational State of Bolivia (accept Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia)

(10) This U.S. state contains the political bellwether of Terre Haute [[TARE HOTE]] on the
Wabash River, which voted for every winning presidential candidate from 1956 to 2020. This
state's namesake dunes along Lake Michigan became a national park in 2019, and this state's
city of South Bend is the hometown of Pete Buttigieg. For the point, name this Hoosier State
with capital at Indianapolis.

ANSWER: Indiana

(11) This U.S. state's town of International Falls is sometimes nicknamed the "Icebox of the
Nation." This city's suburb of Bloomington contains the United States' largest indoor theme
park at the Mall of America. This state administers the Northwest Angle, the northernmost
point of the Lower 48 states. For the point, name this U.S. state home to the "Twin Cities'' of
Saint Paul and Minneapolis.

ANSWER: Minnesota

(12) This country's Basilica of Our Lady of Peace is the world's largest church, and this
country's village of Vridi is the namesake of a canal that connects the Atlantic Ocean to
Abidjan [[AH-bee-jawn]]. This French-speaking country has been less politically stable
throughout its history than its direct eastern neighbor, Ghana. For the point, name this West
African country home to Yamoussoukro [[YAHM-uh-soo-krow]] and named for an elephant
product.

ANSWER: Republique de Cote d'Ivoire (accept Ivory Coast)
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V (7) - 2022-04-04                                            Round 2


(13) This province is home to the city of Medicine Hat, and it derives its wealth from the
Athabasca oil sands. The Flames and Oilers are NHL teams that play in this province, the
westernmost of Canada's Prairie Provinces. Banff National Park is contained within, for the
point, what Canadian province home to Edmonton and Calgary?

ANSWER: Alberta

(14) The Bassac River originates in this country where the lake of Tonlé Sap [[TONE-lay
SAP]] contains a species of giant catfish named for the Mekong River. This country was
formerly known as Kampuchea [[CAM-pooch-uh]], and it is bordered to the northeast by
Laos. For the point, name this Southeast Asian country that contains Angkor Wat and a capital
at Phnom Penh.

ANSWER: Kingdom of Cambodia (accept Preahreacheanachakr Kampuchea until
mentioned)

(15) This city's Belem Tower is adjacent to a monument that honors explorers like Afonso
the Fifth, Bartolomeu Dias, and Vasco da Gama. This city on the mouth of the Tagus River is
the westernmost capital on the Iberian Peninsula. For the point, name this capital of Portugal.

ANSWER: Lisbon (accept Lisboa)

(16) Subsets of these people include the Arrerntes and Pitjantjatjaras [[PEET-en-jahr-
uhs]]. These people form 30 percent of the population of the Northern Territory and refer to
Ayers Rock as "Uluru." For the point, name these indigenous inhabitants of Australia.

ANSWER: Aboriginal Australians (accept equivalents like Australian Aborigines; prompt on
any answer that generally indicates the indigenous inhabitants of Australia before the
giveaway)

(17) This country is the base for Al-Shabaab fighters who targeted shoppers during a
Nairobi mall attack in 2013. Bosaso is a port in this country with a long coastline that lies east
of Ethiopia. Piracy is a major problem in, for the point, what country governed from
Mogadishu?

ANSWER: Federal Republic of Somalia (accept amhuuriyadda Federaalkaa Soomaaliya)

(18) This city's Holy Name Cathedral on State Street features remnants of the bullets used
to kill Hymie Weiss, a gangster who rivaled Al Capone. Oak Park is a suburb of this city that
contains Michigan Avenues and the Willis Tower. Wrigley Field is a historic ballpark in, for
the point, what Midwestern city in Illinois, the third largest in the U.S.?

ANSWER: Chicago
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V (7) - 2022-04-04                                           Round 2


(19) This country experiences harsh winters known as zuds. This country contains the
world's coldest national capital, and it is completely surrounded by Russia and China.
Ulaanbaatar [[OO-lon-bah-TOOR]] is the capital of, for the point, what Central Asian country
where tourists can see the Equestrian Statue of Genghis Khan?

ANSWER: Mongolia (accept Mongol Uls; accept Outer Mongolia)

(20) This island that includes cities like Mayaguez and Ponce [[PON-say]] contains El
Yunque [[el YOON-kay]], the only rainforest administered by the United States National
Forest System. This island often known by its Taino name of Borinquén, and it has a massive
diaspora that forms 9 percent of New York City's population. For the point, name this U.S.
island territory governed from San Juan.

ANSWER: Puerto Rico (accept PR; accept Borinquén until mentioned)

(21) This city's Fisher Island is located in Biscayne Bay and is home to the world's busiest
cruise port. Although it is not in California, this city has a suburb called Hollywood, and Calle
[[KYE-yay]] Ocho is located in this city's neighborhood of Little Havana. South Beach is a
neighborhood in, for the point, what city known for its Cuban population, the largest by
population in South Florida?

ANSWER: Miami

(22) This body of water is connected to the Chukchi Sea through an eponymous strait,
which passes by the "Ice Curtain" of the Diomede [[DYE-oh-mee-dee]] Islands. This sea was
frequented by crab fishermen on the Discovery series Deadliest Catch. A Danish explorer is
the namesake of, for the point, what marginal sea separating Alaska and Russia?

ANSWER: Bering Sea (accept Béringovo móre)

(23) This country contains Citadelle Laferriere [[LA-fair-ee-aire]], the only African-
derived military fortification in the New World. This country that was formerly known as
Saint-Domingue [[SAN-doh-ming]] is the largest Creole-speaking country in the world, and it
occupies the western third of Hispaniola. For the point, name this Caribbean country with
capital at Port-Au-Prince.

ANSWER: Republic of Haiti (accept Republique d'Haiti or Repiblik d Ayiti)

(24) This country's mountain of Paektu [[PIKE-too]] is the source of the Tumen and Yalu
Rivers that form this country's northern boundary. Juche [[JOO-chay]] is the official ideology
of this country where a quarter of the population is involved in its military. For the point,
name this authoritarian country with capital at Pyongyang.

ANSWER: Democratic People's Republic of Korea (accept DPRK; accept North Korea;
accept Choson-minjujuui-inmin-konghwaguk; prompt on "Korea;" do NOT accept "South
Korea," "Republic of Korea," or "ROK")
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V (7) - 2022-04-04                                           Round 2


(25) This city's Loz Feliz neighborhood contains a park that is home to the most-used
telescope in the world at Griffith Observatory. Robert Kennedy was shot and killed at the
Ambassador Hotel in this city, which also contains the adjoining community of Santa Monica.
Neighborhoods in this city include Watts, Bel-Air, and the affluent Beverly Hills. For the point,
name this city that contains Hollywood, the largest in Southern California.

ANSWER: Los Angeles (accept L.A.)

(26) The Canary Wharf Financial District and O2 Stadium are both located along this river,
which is second only to the Severn by length in its country. This river is crossed by the Tower
and Westminster Bridges. For the point, name this river that flows through London.

ANSWER: River Thames

(27) Constantine and Oran are cities in this country, which is the largest in the Maghreb.
After securing independence from France following a bloody war in the 1950s and 60s, this
country adopted a green and white flag with a red crescent moon and star in the middle. For
the point, name this largest country of Africa, located between Tunisia and Morocco.

ANSWER: People's Democratic Republic of Algeria (accept Al Jumhuriyah al Jaza'iriyah ad
Dimuqratiyah ash Sha'biyah)

(28) Jizan and Jeddah are ports on this sea, which lies along the Great Rift Valley and is
connected via the Bab-el-Mandeb to the Gulf of Aden. Eritrea gained a coastline on this sea
after declaring independence from Ethiopia. For the point, name this sea between Africa and
Arabia that is associated with Moses.

ANSWER: Red Sea

(29) Asa Lovejoy lost a coin flip to a settler from Maine to name this city known for its
roses. This city and seat of Multnomah [[MULT-no-muh]] County is overlooked by Mount
Hood and it lies at the confluence of the Willamette [[WUH-lam-it]] and Columbia rivers. For
the point, identify this largest city in Oregon.

ANSWER: Portland

(30) In the 2020 Census, this U.S. state that contains the source of the Monongahela River
just south of Morgantown lost the greatest percentage of its population. This state joined the
union during the Civil War when it broke away from another state due to broad opposition
to slavery. For the point, name this Appalachian state governed from Charleston.

ANSWER: West Virginia
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V (7) - 2022-04-04                                      Round 2


Extra Questions
(1)     This river is known as the Lualaba [[LOO-uh-lah-bah]] before passing through
Boyoma Falls near Kisangani [[KEE-san-gah-nee]]. This river that includes the Kwango and
Ubangi as tributaries also separates the world's two closest national capitals at a widening
called Stanley Pool. The Zaire River was the former name of, for the point, what second-
longest river of Africa that gives its name to two countries?

ANSWER: Congo River (accept Zaire River before mentioned)

(2)     A controversial note of this currency features the Monument to Sunken Ships and the
Swallow's Nest. Denominations of ten in this currency are nicknamed chervonets, and this
currency's smallest subunits are called kopeks. This currency is used in the disputed
territories of South Ossetia [[oh-SECH-yuh]] and Abkhazia [[OB-kah-zee-uh]]. For the point,
name this official currency of Russia.

ANSWER: Russian Ruble
