2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V(7) - 2022-04-04                                           Round 3



Round 3
Regulation Tossups
(1)    This city's Octávio Frias de Oliveira Bridge is noted for its two curved tracks
supported by one mast. Mirante do Vale is the tallest building in this city that contains the
suburb of Santos. This city's Liberdade neighborhood is home to the world's largest Japanese
diaspora, and this city is the largest in the southern and western hemispheres. For the point,
name this largest city of Brazil.

ANSWER: São Paulo

(2)      The banks of this country's namesake river are the location of the Istana Nurul Iman,
the official residence of its head of state. This country contains the water villages of Kampong
Ayer, located in the capital of Bandar Seri Begawan. For the point, name this Southeast Asian
country known for its wealthy sultanate.

ANSWER: Negara Brunei Darussalam

(3)     This city is home to the smallest congressional district in the Western U.S., as well as
the most densely populated county outside of New York. This city's Embarcadero waterfront
stretches from Oracle Park to Fisherman's Wharf and receives ferries from Alcatraz Island.
For the point, name this city in California's Bay Area that includes the iconic Golden Gate
Bridge.

ANSWER: San Francisco (accept SF; accept Frisco)

(4)      This U.S. state contains the tallest capitol building in the U.S, a building sometimes
called "Huey Long's monument." This state's largest city is nicknamed the "Big Easy," and it
sits at the southern end of the Lake Pontchartrain Causeway. For the point, name this U.S.
state that contains New Orleans.

ANSWER: Louisiana

(5)      This country known for its sapphire and vanilla production contains an "Avenue of
the Baobabs." This country is the largest single island nation in the world and it was formerly
known as the Malagasy Republic. Antananarivo is the capital of this country that is famous
for its lemur population. For the point, name this island country off the coast of mainland
Africa, the namesake of a 2005 Dreamworks film.

ANSWER: Republic of Madagascar (accept Republique de Madagascar or Repoblikan'i
Madagasikara)
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V(7) - 2022-04-04                                         Round 3


(6)     The Hop is a streetcar system that serves this city, which contains the headquarters
of the Miller Brewing Company and Harley-Davidson. This city contains the suburbs of Racine
and Kenosha, and it is the second-largest city by population on Lake Michigan. The Bucks of
the NBA and Brewers of the MLB play in, for the point, what largest city of Wisconsin?

ANSWER: Milwaukee

(7)     This U.S. state is home to the highest peak east of the Rockies. This state contains a
massive Crazy Horse Memorial that has been under construction since 1948 in its Black Hills.
This state's cities include Sturgis, which is home to an annual motorcycle rally, as well as
Rapid City and Pierre [[PEER]]. For the point, name this U.S. state that contains Mount
Rushmore.

ANSWER: South Dakota (accept Dakȟóta itókaga; prompt on "Dakota")

(8)     This country contains regions like Fezzan and Cyrenaica [[SEH-ren-uh-kuh]], and it is
indented by the Gulf of Sidra. This country's National Transition Council was announced in
2011 in Benghazi, the site of a 2012 attack on an American consulate. This country formerly
sported an all-green flag until the 2011 overthrow of Muammar Gaddafi. For the point, name
this North African country governed from Tripoli.

ANSWER: State of Libya (accept Dawiat Libiya)

(9)      This country is home to the world's shortest commercial flight between the islands of
Westray and Papa Westray in the Orkney Islands. This country contains the world's oldest
golf resort at St Andrews, and its Highlands region contains Loch Ness. A 2014 independence
referendum was defeated in, for the point, what constituent country of the United Kingdom
that is governed from Edinburgh?

ANSWER: Scotland (accept Scottish Highlands; Alba; prompt on "United Kingdom" or "UK"
until mentioned; prompt on "Great Britain;" do not prompt on "England")

(10) This river's Falcon and Amistad dams are managed by the International Boundary
and Water Commission, and its territorial anomalies include the Horcón [[ORE-"cone"]]
Tract, which is now in Tamaulipas [[tam-OH-lee-pess]], as well as the Chamizal dispute. The
Pecos is the longest tributary of this river, which flows past Laredo and Albuquerque. For the
point, name this river that forms the Texas-Mexico boundary.

ANSWER: Rio Grande (accept Río Bravo del Norte)

(11) This country's inland sea, Khawr al Udayd, was disputed between the Zayed and
Thani families. This country's jagged maroon and white flag is the world's widest. This
country and host of the 2022 FIFA World Cup funds a significant portion of the Al Jazeera
Media Network. For the point, name this small Gulf State that has its capital at Doha.

ANSWER: State of Qatar (accept Dawlat Qatar)
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V(7) - 2022-04-04                                             Round 3


(12) This province's port of Churchill contains a jail for polar bears who wander from
Wapusk National Park. This province, home to Canada's longitudinal center, was originally
founded as the Red River Colony and is the easternmost of the "Prairie Provinces." The
Hudson Bay is bordered by, for the point, what Canadian province north of Minnesota that
has its capital at Winnipeg?

ANSWER: Manitoba

(13) This country's Great Inagua [[ee-NAWG-wah]] Island contains Morton Salt's main
facilities, and Andros is the largest island in this country. This country is part of the larger
Lucayan Archipelago, and this country's Paradise Island contains the sprawling Atlantis
Resort. For the point, name this island country off the southeast coast of Florida with capital
at Nassau [[NAH-sauw]].

ANSWER: Commonwealth of The Bahamas

(14) Some of the mansion scenes from Citizen Kane were filmed in this city's Balboa Park.
This city's Old Town is near the northern portion of the San Ysidro [[ee-SEE-droh]] Port of
Entry, which it shares with its international southern neighbor, Tijuana. For the point,
identify this California city whose Franciscan friars inspired the name of its baseball team,
the Padres.

ANSWER: San Diego

(15) This country has a flag with different back and front sides, and it lost 90 percent of its
male population in the War of the Triple Alliance. The Gran Chaco occupies 60 percent of this
landlocked country where Guarani [[GWUH-rahn-ee]] is an official language. The Itaipu [[ee-
"TIE"-poo]] Dam on the Paraná [[pare-uh-nah]] River powers, for the point, what country
governed from Asunción [[uh-SOON-see-ohn]]?

ANSWER: Republic of Paraguay (accept Republica del Paraguay)

(16) This U.S. state's Biltmore Estate is the largest private home in the United States. This
state's Mt. Mitchell is the highest point east of the Mississippi River in the U.S., and its Outer
Banks were the site of the lost Roanoke Colony, as well as the first heavier-than-air flight at
Kitty Hawk. For the point, name this U.S. state home to Charlotte and Raleigh.

ANSWER: North Carolina (accept NC; prompt on "Carolina")

(17) The Wakhan [[wuh-KON]] Corridor contains the largest gap between these areas,
independently set by locales like Eucla and the Chatham Islands. The Aleutian Archipelago is
grouped together in one of these areas, and France has the most of these areas while China
only uses one. For the point, name these areas responsible for jet lag, U.S. examples of which
include Eastern, Mountain, and Pacific.

ANSWER: Time Zones
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V(7) - 2022-04-04                                          Round 3


(18) This mountain range's northern extension is part of the archipelagic [[ARC-uh-puh-
ladge-ick]] region of Novaya Zemlya [[no-VYE-uh ZEM-lee-uh]]. The Romanovs were
executed on this mountain range's foothills in Yekaterinburg [[EE-kat-uh-ren-burg]], and this
range is considered the boundary between Europe and Asia. For the point, name these
mountains that stretch from Kazakhstan to the Arctic Ocean.

ANSWER: Ural Mountains

(19) This country administers the Bismarck Archipelago, which is home to New Britain
and New Ireland. This country administers the autonomous region of Bougainville, which is
part of the Solomon Islands. Port Moresby is the capital of, for the point, what country that
shares a namesake "New" island with Indonesia?

ANSWER: Independent State of Papua New Guinea (accept Papuaniugini; accept PNG; do
not accept or prompt on "Papua" or "New Guinea" alone)

(20) Refugees in this country desperately attempted to cling to a plane during a 2021
evacuation at Hamid Karzai International Airport. This country's republic suffered losses at
Lashkargah and Kandahar during a 2021 terrorist uprising. For the point, identify this
country where the Taliban toppled an Islamic republic in Kabul.

ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (accept Jamhuri-ye Islami-ye Afghanistan)

(21) This country's second-largest island is Isla de la Juventud. The explosion of the USS
Maine in this nation's largest city was the impetus for the Spanish-American War. This former
American protectorate leased Guantanamo Bay to the United States as a military base. For
the point, name this country governed from Havana and formerly led by Fidel Castro.

ANSWER: Republic of Cuba (accept Republica de Cuba)

(22) This lake that receives the Pigeon and Nipigon Rivers is also known by the Ojibwe
[[OH-jib-way]] name Gitchi-Gami. Thunder Bay and Duluth are ports on this lake, which
contains a national park at Isle Royale. For the point, name this largest of the Great Lakes.

ANSWER: Lake Superior (accept Gitchi-Gami until mentioned)

(23) This city is the world's oldest continually inhabited national capital, and its Umayyad
[[OO-"my"-yahd]] Mosque is said to contain the head of John the Baptist. This city visible from
Mount Hermon in the Golan Heights became the largest in its country following the Battle of
Aleppo. For the point, name this walled capital of Syria.

ANSWER: Damascus (accept Dimasqa)
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V(7) - 2022-04-04                                           Round 3


(24) This country controls the remote Cocos Island from Puntarenas [[POONT-uh-ray-
ness]] Province. This country's ecotourism industry thrives on the Osa and Nicoya
Peninsulas, and this country's northern border is formed by Nicaragua. For the point, name
this country that is governed from San Jose and has a Spanish name meaning "Rich Coast."

ANSWER: Republic of Costa Rica (accept Republica de Costa Rica or CR)

(25) This region's largest city is divided by a series of "Peace Walls," and it contains the
shipyard that built the RMS Titanic. A collection of hexagonal basalt pillars called the Giant's
Causeway in this region is located 35 miles northeast of Derry. The Good Friday Agreement
ended a period called The Troubles in, for the point, what constituent region of the United
Kingdom that contains Belfast?

ANSWER: Northern Ireland (prompt on "Ulster; prompt on the "UK" before mentioned;
accept Tuaisceart Éireann or Norlin Airlann; do NOT prompt on "Ireland")

(26) A monument honoring this resource was demolished to counter an uprising in
Bahrain. One river named for this resource makes up the southern boundary between
Louisiana and Mississippi, and another river that bears this name passes by Macau and
Shenzhen. The USS Arizona sank in a harbor named for this resource in Honolulu. For the
point, name this precious resource produced by oysters.

ANSWER: Pearls

(27) One of this country's UNESCO World Heritage sites includes the Alhambra, and that
site is located in this country's region of Granada. Andalusia is part of this country that also
contains Valencia. For the point, identify this European country that contains Catalonia, home
to the city of Barcelona, as well as Madrid.

ANSWER: Kingdom of Spain (accept Reino de Espana)

(28) This ocean's namesake ridge has its highest point on the island of Pico. This ocean's
port of Recife is known for its style of Frevo dance, and it contains the Azores and the Faroe
Islands. Monrovia and Reykjavik are capitals in, for the point, what ocean that receives the
Amazon and Mississippi Rivers?

ANSWER: Atlantic Ocean

(29) The Merlion [[MURR-"lion"]], an iconic symbol of this country, is honored in a statue
that spouts water into Marina Bay. This polity with a Han Chinese majority contains the
Raffles Hotel, and it is the wealthiest member by GDP per Capita in the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations. For the point, name this city-state off the southern tip of the Malay
Peninsula.

ANSWER: Republic of Singapore
2021-22 MS Geography Bee 1 V(7) - 2022-04-04                                            Round 3


(30) This city located 15 miles from Red Rock Canyon has a downtown area centered on
Fremont Street. Two hotels in this city are named after places in northern Italy, those being
the Bellagio and the Venetian. This seat of Clark County borders Paradise, an unincorporated
town that actually contains most of its "Strip." For the point, name this Nevada gambling
center.

ANSWER: Las Vegas (accept nicknames like Sin City, City of Lights, and the Entertainment
Capital of the World)

Extra Questions
(1)    Japan threatened to withhold funds from this organization after it preserved
documents from the Nanjing Massacre. Israel and the United States are not members of this
organization, which helped to save Abu Simbel from flooding, and bodies of water that have
received this organization's highest honor include Ha Long Bay. For the point, name this
organization that designates World Heritage Sites.

ANSWER: United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (accept
UNESCO)

(2)     The construction of this project in Sandouping reduced the length of Earth's day by
.06 microseconds. In 1956, a poem about this project called "Swimming" was written by Mao
Zedong. Many criticized this project for further pushing the baiji [["BYE"-jee]] into extinction,
and this project is the world's largest power station. For the point, name this massive dam on
the Yangtze River.

ANSWER: Three Gorges Dam
