2021-22 ES National Geography Bee                                                      Round 8



(E) Geography Round 8
Regulation Tossups
(1)      This polity's Lake Rista contained a summer home of Joseph Stalin. This polity's
Veryovkina [[vehr-YOHV-kee-nah]] Cave is the world's deepest at over seven thousand feet.
Sukhumi is the capital of this breakaway state that is recognized with South Ossetia [[oh-SET-
yah]] as sovereign by Russia. For the point, name this Georgian breakaway state on the Black
Sea.

ANSWER: Republic of Abkhazia [[ab-KAH-zee-ah]] (prompt on “Georgia”)

(2)     This state is home to Anamudi and also contains India's oldest Jewish population. This
state at the end of the Western Ghats is largely synonymous with the Malabar Coast on the
Laccadive [[LAK-ah-"dive"]] Sea. With its capital at Trivandum, for the point, what is this
Indian state which is home to the port city Kochi?

ANSWER: Kerala [[KEH-ruh-luh]]

(3)     This city contains the Illich Steel and Iron Works factory. This city is claimed as the
largest port of a "people's republic" declared by Denis Pushilin, and this city, where a theatre
and maternity hospital were targeted in 2022 airstrikes, is officially part of the Donetsk
Oblast. For the point, name this Ukrainian port on the Sea of Azov, which has been besieged
by Russia.

ANSWER: Mariupol

(4)     This territory is nicknamed the "Top End," and its Kakadu National Park near Arnhem
Land is situated on the Arafura Sea south of New Guinea. This territory, half of which is under
Aboriginal administration, contains Ayers Rock, also known as Uluru. For the point, name this
Australian territory with its capital at Darwin.

ANSWER: Northern Territory (or NT; prompt on "The T")

(5)     This river's northern reaches once defined the Republic of Indian Stream. This river's
valley contains towns such as Amherst, Massachusetts with Yale University adjacent to it. In
this river's lower reaches, it passes through Springfield, Massachusetts before entering
Hartford. For the point, name this river that exits its namesake state in New Haven.

ANSWER: Connecticut River
2021-22 ES National Geography Bee                                                     Round 8


(6)     This park is nestled in the Tularosa Basin east of the Sacramento Mountains, and
Steve Pearce opposed this park's nomination as a World Heritage Site due to concerns that it
could interrupt military testing. The Trinity bomb was detonated in, for the point, what New
Mexico park known for its gypsum crystal sand dunes?

ANSWER: White Sands National Park

(7)     This state, home to the seaside Las Labradas petroglyphs, has a narrow southern
border with Nayarit, and its largest cities include Los Mochis, Mazatlán, and Culiacán. For the
point, name this Mexican state, south of Sonora on the Gulf of California, the namesake of El
Chapo's drug cartel.

ANSWER: Sinaloa (accept Sinaloa Cartel or Cártel de Sinaloa)

(8)     Centum City, which contains the flagship store of the Shinsegae franchise, the world's
largest department store is in this city. The island of Tsushima [[soo-SHE-mah]] is visible
from this city, which forms an industrial zone with Gimhae and Ulsan at the mouth of the
Nakdong River. For the point, name this largest port in South Korea, its second largest city,
only 100 miles from Japan.

ANSWER: Busan Metropolitan City (accept Pusan)

(9)      This city's namesake bay receives the Great Usutu River and is bound by Inhaca
Island, and this city is known for its train station whose dome is often mistakenly credited to
Gustave Eiffel. This city was known as Lourenço Marques [[loh-REN-soh MAR-kess]] until
1976, when it was renamed under a newly formed socialist state. For the point, name this
capital of Mozambique.

ANSWER: Maputo (accept Lourenço Marques before mentioned; accept Maputo Bay)

(10) One of these territories called Campione [[cahm-PYOH-nee]] d'Italia formerly
contained Europe's largest casino. The breakaway Republic of Artsakh is an example of one
of these territories within Azerbaijan, one of which formerly included West Berlin. San
Marino and Lesotho [[leh-SOO-too]] are national examples of, for the point, what type of
territory completely surrounded by foreign country?

ANSWER: Enclaves (accept Exclaves until "Artsakh" is mentioned)

(11) This mountain overlooks a replica plantation inspired by Gone with the Wind, and its
park officially opened on the 100th anniversary of Lincoln's assassination. In his "I Have a
Dream" speech, Martin Luther King, Jr. said, "Let freedom ring from [this mountain]" where
the second Ku Klux Klan was founded in 1915. For the point, name this Georgia mountain that
controversially displays carvings of three Confederate leaders.

ANSWER: Stone Mountain (accept Stone Mountain Park)
2021-22 ES National Geography Bee                                                        Round 8


(12) This city’s airport is known for an ominous series of murals and an imposing Blue
Mustang statue. This city on the South Platte River includes suburbs such as Aurora,
Lakewood, and Boulder and is the largest city that is permanently in Mountain Time. For the
point, name this "Mile High City," the capital of Colorado.

ANSWER: Denver (accept Denver International Airport)

(13) The discovery of this city's oil field occurred at Alamitos oil well, which is located in
Signal Hill. This city shares its name with a barrier island in New York that is located just east
of the Rockaway Peninsula. The Walter Pyramid and Villa Riviera are attractions in this city,
whose port contains the RMS Queen Mary and forms the busiest shipping complex in the U.S.
with Los Angeles. For the point, name this California port and epicenter of the 2021 supply
chain crisis.

ANSWER: Long Beach

(14) This city's Central Park of Culture and Leisure is more commonly known as Gorky
Park. Multi-colored onion domes sit atop this city's Saint Basil's Cathedral. The seat of
government in this city is the Kremlin. Home to the historic Red Square, for the point, what is
this capital and largest city of Russia?

ANSWER: Moscow (or Moskva)

(15) This lake's three basins are demarcated by the Academician Ridge, which peaks above
the water at the Svyatoi [[SWEE-ah-toy]] Nos Peninsula and the Ushkan Islands. The Shaman
Rock juts out into this lake on Olkhon Island, Eurasia's largest lake island, and this lake, west
of Buryatia, feeds the Angara River, a tributary of the Yenisei River. For the point, name this
lake in Siberia, the world's deepest.

ANSWER: Lake Baikal (or Ozero Baykal)

(16) This island group has a flag that displays a yellow shield with a conch shell, a lobster,
and a melon cactus, known for its red cap that resembles a fez. Many have proposed that
Canada could annex these islands, the smaller polity of the Lucayan Archipelago. These
islands have their capital at Cockburn Town, although Providenciales is their largest city.
Made up of two groups of tropical islands, for the point, what is this British Overseas Territory
southeast of the Bahamas?

ANSWER: Turks and Caicos Islands (accept TCI; prompt on partial answers)

(17) The Indian state of Sikkim has distributed water bottles made from this plant to
prevent plastic pollution. This plant was often used to make reed pens. This plant can grow
at speeds of up to 1.5 inches per hour, making it the world's fastest-growing plant. For the
point, name this Asian plant that is the main source of food for the giant panda.

ANSWER: Bamboo (or Bambusoideae)
2021-22 ES National Geography Bee                                                        Round 8


(18) The Pearl is the only place in its country where foreigners can own property. This
city's Museum of Islamic Art was designed by I.M. Pei, and this city's Hamad International
Airport is the hub of an airline whose logo sports an Arabian oryx. Al Jazeera has its
headquarters in this city, whose Khalifa Stadium will be the main venue of the 2022 World
Cup. For the point, name this capital of Qatar.

ANSWER: Doha (or ad-Dawḥa)

(19)    This port city's name was emblazoned on the Titanic as the White Star Line was
headquartered on James Street in this city. Mercantile buildings known as the "Three Graces"
overlook the Mersey River in this city. With residents known colloquially as "Scousers," for
the point, what is this English city, the birthplace of The Beatles?

ANSWER: Liverpool

(20) This island has its highest point at Mount Agung, which erupted from 2017 to 2019.
Denpasar is the largest city of this island, located near its southernmost point on the Bukit
Peninsula. This island, located west of Lombok, is the only island in the Malay Archipelago to
have a majority Hindu population. For the point, name this Lesser Sunda, Indonesia's main
tourist hub.

ANSWER: Bali

(21) This country's salient Grand-Popo is an important center of voodoo and takes its
name from the Yoruba word for "west." Fon is the primary language in this country within
which the historical Kingdom of Dahomey was located. With its capital at Porto-Novo, for the
point, what is this country which is home to Cotonou?

ANSWER: Republic of Benin (or Republique du Benin; accept Dahomey before mentioned)

(22) This locale is located off the coast of the Cotentin [[koh-tahn-TAN]] Peninsula, and its
flag features a red St. Andrew's Cross surmounted by a Plantagenet [[plahn-TAH-jeh-net]]
Crown, which originated in Anjou. St. Helier [[el-YEH]] is the capital of this Crown
Dependency, the southernmost part of the British Isles. For the point, name this Channel
Island which is the namesake of a US state governed from Trenton.

ANSWER: Bailiwick of Jersey (do not accept or prompt on "Guernsey" or "New Jersey")

(23) This territory onled administered the remote Clipperton Island. This territory's
Gambier [[gahm-BYEH]] Islands provide the only outside link to the Pitcairn Islands, and its
other archipelagoes include the Austral, Tuamotu, Marquesas, and Society Islands. Known for
its bungalow resorts, for the point, what is this collective in the Pacific which is governed from
Papeete [[pah-peh-EH-teh]] on Tahiti?

ANSWER: French Polynesia (or Pōrīnetia Farāni; or Polynésie française; prompt on
partial answers; do not accept or prompt on "Tahiti")
2021-22 ES National Geography Bee                                                     Round 8


(24)     Water-filled, glacier-carved canyons along this body of water include Emerald Bay
and Fallen Leaf Lake. Minor settlements along this lake include Meeks Bay and Kings Beach.
This lake is drained by the Truckee River, which flows to Pyramid Lake near Reno. This lake
is bordered by Carson City in the Sierra Nevadas. For the point, name this popular ski vacation
spot, a lake located along the California-Nevada Border.

ANSWER: Lake Tahoe

(25) The remains of Fort Mundy are in this country's Orange Walk, located near Ambergris
Caye. This nation and the Mopan River make a portmanteau to form its capital’s name. For
the point, name this majority English-speaking Central American nation once known as
British Honduras.

ANSWER: Belize (accept British Honduras before mentioned)
2021-22 ES National Geography Bee                                                      Round 8


Extra Questions
(1)       This site, officially known as Homey Airport or Groom Lake, is served by the exclusive
Janet Airlines, which also serves China Lake and Tonopah from Harry Reid Airport. In 2019,
over 2 million people signed a proposal to "raid" this site, although only a few thousand
congregated on the Extraterrestrial Highway. For the point, name this secretive military
facility in Nevada, associated with UFO conspiracy theories.

ANSWER: Area 51 (accept Groom Lake before mentioned)

(2)     This country is home to a company that once unintentionally dumped 30 thousand
rubber ducks into the Pacific Ocean, the movements of which were used to study ocean
currents. That company, Evergreen, is headquartered in Taoyuan, and operated the ship that
blockaded the Suez Canal for a week in 2021. Kaohsiung [[KOW-SHYUNG]] and Taipei are
ports in, for the point, what country, separated by the Formosa Strait from mainland China?

ANSWER: Taiwan (accept Chinese Taipei, Republic of China, ROC, or Formosa before
mentioned; do not accept "PRC" or "People's Republic of China" under any circumstances;
prompt on "China")
