2021-22 ES National Geography Bee                                                     Round 7



(E) Geography Round 7
Regulation Tossups
(1)     A largely Black village bearing this name in Manhattan was razed during Central
Park's construction. That lake with this name, situated west of Cayuga Lake, was named for
the westernmost member of the Iroquois Confederation and is the largest of the Finger Lakes.
For the point, what name goes with "falls" in the name of an Upstate New York city where the
first women's rights convention was held?

ANSWER: Seneca (accept Seneca Lake; accept Seneca Village; accept Seneca Falls
Convention; accept Seneca people)

(2)      A 2021 "Dolphin Hunt" in this archipelago resulted in the slaughter of almost 1,500
dolphins on Eysturoy [[ESS-troy]]. This archipelago's largest island Streymoy contains its
capital, Tórshavn [[TOH-sha-ohn]]. The closest inhabited islands to this archipelago are the
Shetland Islands, and it maintains the free trade Hoyvík [[HOY-ah-wik]] Agreement with
Iceland. For the point, name this Danish archipelago in the North Sea

ANSWER: Faroe Islands (or Faeroes; or Føroyar; or Færøerne)

(3)     One city of this name contains the Torres Obispado, Latin America's tallest building,
which overlooks the Macroplaza, North America's largest plaza. Another city of this name
contains a "bay aquarium" at the end of Cannery Row, made famous by John Steinbeck's
writings. A bay that contains the city of Santa Cruz south of San Francisco bears, for the
point, what name also held by the capital of Nuevo León that forms Mexico's second-largest
metro area?

ANSWER: Monterey (accept Monterey Bay Aquarium; accept Monterey Bay

(4)      Twelve-angled stones can be found in this city along the Hatun Rumiyuq. A portrait
in this city depicts Jesus and the Twelve Apostles feasting on a guinea pig. This city, at the
center of the "royal road" system, includes the Sacsayhuamán [[sahk-say-hwah-MAHN]]
citadel and is situated near the sacred Urubamba Valley. For the point, name this Peruvian
city, the former capital of the Inca Empire.

ANSWER: Cusco (or Qusqu)

(5)      This city contains the world's highest observation deck at the Ping An International
Finance Centre. This city's Luohu [[LWOH-HOO]] and Fuitan [[FWEE-TAHN]] ports are two
of the world's busiest border crossings, and this city, home to Huawei's headquarters, was
the first Special Economic Zone of its country. For the point, name this city just north of
Hong Kong, a major tech hub in China.

ANSWER: Shenzhen (accept Sham Chun)
2021-22 ES National Geography Bee                                                     Round 7


(6)     Josephus [[joh-SEE-fess]] is the source of most historical information about this site,
ascended by the world's lowest cable car. The Sicarii Rebels allegedly committed a mass
suicide at this structure built by Herod the Great. For the point, name this fortress
overlooking the Dead Sea in the Judean Desert.

ANSWER: Masada (or Metsada)

(7)     This country's town Vieux [[VYOO]] Fort is home to Hewanorra International Airport.
This country contains a series of volcanic plugs called the Pitons [[pit-OHNS]] which are
depicted on this country's light blue flag. This country, which takes its name from a canonized
figure from Syracuse, is the only independent nation named for a historical woman. For the
point, name this country of the Lesser Antilles with its capital at Castries.

ANSWER: Saint Lucia

(8)      This mountain is accessible from the town of Lone Pine in the Owens Valley. This
mountain is located on the border between the counties Inyo and Tulare [[tuh-LAY-ree]], and
it is the southern terminus of the John Muir Trail. This highest peak between the Saint Elias
Mountains and Central Mexico is located only 84 miles from North America's lowest point at
Death Valley. For the point, name this highest peak of the Sierra Nevadas in California as well
as the Lower 48 states.

ANSWER: Mount Whitney (or Tumanguya)

(9)     This city houses Bugle Rock, a geological rock formation that is over 3 billion years
old. This city, that sits on the Mysore Plateau, has several lakes, the largest being Bellandur
Lake. Due to this city’s large information technology industry, it is often referred to as the
“Silicon Valley of India.” For the point, name this city, the capital of the Indian state of
Karnataka and the third-most populous city in India.

ANSWER: Bangalore (or Bengaluru)

(10) This city, home to the Henry Vilas Zoo, takes its indigenous name, Dejope [[DEE-
johp]], from Ho-Chunk for "four lakes." The state legislature that meets in this city's Capitol
building passed a 2018 bill to limit the powers of incoming governor Tony Evers, who was
replacing Scott Walker. For the point, name this capital of Wisconsin.

ANSWER: Madison

(11) The world's longest conga line occurred in 1988 during this neighborhood's Calle
[[KAH-yeh]] Ocho Festival. This non-California neighborhood's "Walk of Fame" honors artists
like Celia Cruz, and José Martí Park is located in this neighborhood that has seen an influx of
Nicaraguan immigrants. The destination of those flying on "Freedom Flights" across the
Straits of Florida, for the point, what is this Miami neighborhood, an anchor of Cuban culture?

ANSWER: Little Havana (or Pequeña Habana; prompt on "Miami")
2021-22 ES National Geography Bee                                                     Round 7


(12)    This city's university is known for its Aula Magna auditorium that contains "floating
clouds." Shortages of toilet paper and other goods have plagued this city in recent years,
served by Simon Bolivar Airport. Located in a namesake valley of the Maritime Andes, for the
point, what is this city, the capital of Venezuela?

ANSWER: Santiago de León de Caracas (or CCS; accept Caracas Valley))

(13) This gulf contains the coastline of the Guangxi [[GWAHNG-SHEE]] Autonomous
Region and gave its name to a French protectorate. This gulf receives the Red River just south
of Haiphong, and the karstic Hạ Long Bay is located in this gulf west of Hainan. For the point,
name this gulf between China and Northern Vietnam, an "incident" at which led to Lyndon B.
Johnson escalating the Vietnam War.

ANSWER: Gulf of Tonkin (accept Bắc Kỳ; accept Gulf of Tonkin Incident)

(14)     This city's Mexico Square is over-passed by its light rail system, the only one on
mainland sub-Saharan Africa. This city's Holy Trinity Cathedral is the second-most important
place of worship for the Orthodox Tewahedo Church and is called Kidist Selassie in Amharic.
For the point, name this capital of Ethiopia.

ANSWER: Addis Ababa

(15) These formations were permanently damaged by Dakar Rally racers after stopping at
Arequipa [[ah-reh-KEE-pah]]. These formations, which include "The Monkey" and "The
Condor," are alleged by some to have been made by aliens since they can be best seen from
the air. These formations were created by a culture that also named the tectonic plate that
caused the rise of the Andes. For the point, name these ancient geoglyphs in Peru.

ANSWER: Nazca Lines (accept Nazca culture; accept Nazca Plate)

(16)    This county designed one of its main public parks, named after a strait to its north,
after Central Park's rectangle. Lake Merced Park is located near the Pacific Ocean in this
county's west, and this county's Fort Mason is located within Great Meadow Park. This
county's northernmost park is known as the Presidio. For the point, name this county and
namesake city, home to Golden Gate Park.

ANSWER: City and County of San Francisco (accept San Francisco County)

(17) This city's Zuma Rock is depicted on the 100 Naira note while its Aso Rock towers
over a villa that has served as Muhammadu Buhari's residence. This fastest-growing city in
Africa was made the capital of its country to balance power between Muslims and Christians,
replacing Lagos. For the point, name this capital of Nigeria.

ANSWER: Abuja
2021-22 ES National Geography Bee                                                        Round 7


(18) This city's central Piazza dei Miracoli includes the Camposanto Monument, built on a
mound of holy soil brought from Jerusalem. This city was Lucca's historical rival and once
ruled over a republic that stretched across islands from Elba to the Balearics. That republic
was eventually superseded by Genoa and this city, located near the Arno River's mouth. For
the point, name this Italian city, home to a famous leaning tower.

ANSWER: Pisa (accept Leaning Tower of Pisa)

(19) This territory contains both Oneo Island and Henderson Island, one of the two
undistributed, raised coral atolls in the world. This territory is the least-populous in the world
with under 50 inhabitants who exclusively reside in Adamstown. For the point, name these
British Islands in the Pacific, inhabited by descendants of the HMS Bounty mutineers and their
Tahitian captives.

ANSWER: Pitcairn Islands (or Pitkern Ailen; or Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie and Oeno
Islands)

(20)     This shallow lake's northern and southern basins are connected by a 118-foot deep
channel, and it takes its name from the Cree word for "muddy waters." This largest remnant
of the glacial Lake Agassiz is drained by the Nelson River and fed by the Saskatchewan River
and Red River of the North. For the point, name this lake that shares its name with Manitoba's
capital.

ANSWER: Lake Winnipeg (or Weenipagamiksaguygun)

(21) This country contains Adam's Peak, which is said to be the footprint of the Buddha,
and a chain of limestone shoals called Adam's Bridge connected this country to Tamil Nadu
until a 1480 cyclone. This country is the westernmost with a Buddhist majority and is located
in the southwestern Bay of Bengal. For the point, name this country, home to Colombo.

ANSWER: Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (or Shri Lanka Prajatantrika
Samajavadi Janarajaya; or Ilankai Jananayaka Choshalichak Kutiyarachu; accept Ceylon)

(22) Post-glacial rebound in this body of water continues to lift the Kvarken Archipelago.
Major islands in this body of water include the Ålands [[OH-ah-lahnds]] and Gotland
[["GOAT"-lahnd]]. This body of water lends its name to a group of countries including Estonia,
Latvia, and Lithuania. For the point, name this European sea that separates Sweden from
Finland.

ANSWER: Baltic Sea (accept Baltic states; accept Gulf of Bothnia before "Gotland" is
mentioned)
2021-22 ES National Geography Bee                                                    Round 7


(23) Guymon [["GUY"-mun]] is the most populous city in a landlocked example of these
regions that was once a Neutral Strip. One of these regions in Maryland is the site of Deep
Creek Lake in the Appalachian Mountains. West Virginia has two of these regions, one
extending to Harper's Ferry and another to Wheeling. For the point, name these elongated
geographical features that extend a state's territory from its central region.

ANSWER: Panhandle (accept Salient in place of Panhandle; accept inclusions of
"Maryland," "West Virginia," "Florida," or "Oklahoma" with Panhandle)

(24) Along this body of water, Gagra serves as the primary port of a disputed territory. A
northern arm of this body of water is the Sea of Azov, and important cities along the shores
of this sea include Sevastopol and Istanbul. Separated from the Mediterranean by the
Bosporus, for the point, what is this colorfully named sea located between Turkey and the
Crimea?

ANSWER: Black Sea

(25) This city's "Plus 15" skyway connects skyscrapers including Brookfield Place and
Bankers Hall, home to gold and silver roofs said to resemble cowboy hats. This city, the home
of WestJet, was the first in Canada to host the Winter Olympics. This city on the Bow River is
often called "Cowtown" and forms an urban area with Edmonton. For the point, name this
largest city in Alberta.

ANSWER: Calgary
2021-22 ES National Geography Bee                                                  Round 7


Extra Questions
(1)     This country's namesake river has its source in Mato Grosso state. This country's
second-largest city of Ciudad del Este is located near the former Guaíra Falls, the world's
most-voluminous falls until the Itaipu Dam's construction. For the point, name this country
between Argentina, Brazil, and Bolivia.

ANSWER: Republic of Paraguay (accept Republica del Paraguay; accept Paraguay River or
Rio Paraguay)

(2)     In this state, the Oak Ridge National Laboratory is the site of Summit, one of the
world's most powerful supercomputers. That site in this state was also used to enrich
uranium in the Manhattan Project. This state is home to Knoxville, a gateway to the most-
visited National Park in the US, the Great Smoky Mountains. Known for its country music, for
the point, what is this state which is home to Memphis and Nashville?

ANSWER: Tennessee
