2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                                 Round 3



(E) Geography Bee Round 3
Regulation Tossups
(1)     The Toksha Lakes were created by diverting water from this body via a canal named
for Anwar Sadat. The Abu Simbel Temples were relocated from this lake to prevent their
flooding due to the construction of the Aswan High Dam. For the point, name this reservoir
in Southern Egypt.

ANSWER: Lake Nasser (accept Lake Nubia)

(2)     One of these structures, near the ancient city of Tarraco, is called the Pont del
Diable, or "Devil's Bridge." The Porta Maggiore [[mah-ZHOR-eh]] Gate was created from one
of the four "Great Ones" of these structures that supplied a city along with Aqua Marcia,
Anio Vetus, and Anio Novus. The Pont du Gard exemplifies, for the point, what structures
used to carry water?

ANSWER: Roman Aqueducts

(3)    This river receives Poyang Lake near the border of Anhui and Jiangxi [[JAHNG-
SHEE]] provinces and flows past the cities of of Wuhu and Wuhan. This river hosts a
possibly extinct species of dolphin called the baiji, the survival of which was further
threatened by the Three Gorges Dam. For the point, name this longest river of China.

ANSWER: Yangtze River (or Cháng Jiāng)

(4)     This lake's port of Tiberias holds the Tomb of Maimonides [[my-MOH-nee-dess]],
and this lake, that receives waters from Mount Hermon, is the world's second lowest. The
western border of the Golan Heights swoops around this lake that is drained by the Jordan
River into the Dead Sea. For the point, name this "Sea” in Northern Israel.

ANSWER: Sea of Galilee (accept Lake Tiberias before mentioned; accept Kinnereth)

(5)    This city's Rottnest Island, along with Albany's Bald Island, is one of the two habitats
of the quokka. Suburbs of this city include Mandurah and Fremantle, but it is still the
world's most isolated urban area of over a million inhabitants. The Swan River flows
through, for the point, what capital of Western Australia?

ANSWER: Perth (or Boorloo)
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                                Round 3


(6)    This region's namesake archipelago includes Isola del Giglio [[ZHEEL-ee-oh]], along
with the island of Elba between the Ligurian and Tyrrhenian Seas. The Etruscans formerly
inhabited this region, which is home to the Arno River. The Medici once ruled, for the point,
what region of Italy, which is home to Florence?

ANSWER: Tuscany (or Toscana; prompt on "Tuscan Archipelago"; prompt on "Italy" before
mentioned)

(7)     This city, located on the western edge of the Llano [[YAH-noh]] Estacado, is the
largest city on the Pecos River and a gateway to Carlsbad Caverns National Park. This city is
home to the International UFO Museum and Research Center. For the point, identify this
southeastern New Mexico city, the site of an alleged 1947 extraterrestrial encounter?

ANSWER: Roswell

(8)      This mountain range formerly housed the "closed town" of Snezhinsk, which was
located near the Chelyabinsk Oblast. Yekaterinburg is the largest city in this mountain
range, which forms the northernmost part of a continental boundary stretching to the
Caucasus. For the point, name this mountain range that separates European Russia and
Siberia.

ANSWER: Ural Mountains (or Urals)

(9)    This island, the site of the royal Iolani Palace, has attractions such as Waikiki Beach
and Pearl Harbor that are located on the southern coast of this island. This island is found
between the islands of Molokai and Kauai. For the point, identify this most-populous island
of Hawaii where a majority of residents live near Honolulu.

ANSWER: Oahu (prompt on "The Gathering Place")

(10) This region is largely synonymous with Dongbei, and this region's name was first
used by the Japanese in reference to the people who lived there. This region's northern
boundary is formed by the Amur River, and its cities include Harbin, which hosts a famous
ice festival. For the point, name this region of northeastern China.

ANSWER: Manchuria (accept Dongbei until mentioned; accept Heilongjiang; prompt on
"Northeast China" and similar answers)

(11) This peninsula contains the world's oldest operating library at Saint Catherine's
Monastery. This peninsula, home to the resort of Sharm el-Sheikh, is located between the
Gulf of Aqaba and the Gulf of Suez. For the point, name this peninsula where Moses received
the Ten Commandments on a namesake mount.

ANSWER: Sinai Peninsula (accept Mount Sinai)
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                               Round 3


(12) This country's highest point, Mount Scenery, is located on an island called Saba. This
country administers an island where the Portuguese-based creole Papiamento is spoken,
which is also home to one of the oldest synagogues of the Americas at Willemstad. Curacao
is administered by, for the point, what European country?

ANSWER: Kingdom of the Netherlands (or Koninkrijk der Nederlanden; accept Holland)

(13) It's not in the Pacific, but this country's Aldabra Atoll is famed for its endemic Giant
Tortoise species. This country’s most populous island is Mahé [[mah-HEH]], and this
country has Africa's highest GDP per capita and lowest population. For the point, name this
archipelagic country of Africa governed from Victoria.

ANSWER: Republic of Seychelles

(14) The cancellation of this event in 2020 led London Breed to condemn a group who
had gathered on San Francisco's Ocean Beach. This event occurs before every Labor Day
weekend in the Black Rock Desert, which is 100 miles north of Reno. For the point, name
this Nevada festival that involves the destruction of a wooden effigy.

ANSWER: Burning Man Festival

(15) The north region of this landmass included the Caledonian Mountains. This
landmass was surrounded by the Panthalassa Ocean and began to split during the late
Mesozoic Era, forming the Tethys Ocean between Gondwanaland and Laurasia. For the
point, name this ancient supercontinent of the Triassic Period.

ANSWER: Pangaea [[pan-JEE-ah]] (be lenient on pronunciation)

(16) This region includes the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, which derives its name from
"jaguar mountain." Ruins in this region include Monte Albán, which was used by the
Zapotecs. For the point, name this historic region of Mexico and Central America, the former
home of the Maya and Inca.

ANSWER: Mesoamerica (accept Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System; do not accept or
prompt on specific countries such as "Honduras" or "Mexico")

(17) One city of this name contains the NFL's largest stadium, AT&T Stadium, as well as
the original Six Flags theme park. Another city of this name contains Crystal City, a
neighborhood set to house Amazon's HQ2. For the point, identify this name shared by a
Texas city in the Dallas-Fort Worth metro area and a Virginia city home to the Pentagon.

ANSWER: Arlington
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                                Round 3


(18) This bay's Playa Girón was the landing site of an invasion by Brigade 2506, a CIA-
trained military group led by Pepe San Román. This bay, to the east of the Zapata Peninsula,
is part of Matanzas Province and is also known as the Bahía de los Cochinos. For the point,
name this Cuban bay, the site of a failed 1961 invasion.

ANSWER: Bay of Pigs (accept Bahía de los Cochinos before mentioned; accept Bay of Pigs
Invasion)

(19) This dependency's bicameral legislature is referred to as the Tynwald. The main
symbol on this dependency’s flag is a triskelion of three legs with golden spurs, an ancient
Celtic motif. Douglas is the capital of, for the point, what self-governing British Crown
dependency that gives its name to breed of cat without a tail?

ANSWER: Isle of Man (or Mannin; or Ellan Vannin; accept Manx Cat)

(20) This country's "Silk City" project included the construction of the Sheikh Jaber Al-
Ahmad Al-Sabah Causeway, the longest bridge in the Middle East. This country's dinar is the
world's most-highly valued currency, and this country was the site of history's largest oil
spill in 1991. For the point, name this oil-rich Gulf state between Iraq and Saudi Arabia.

ANSWER: State of Kuwait (accept Dawlat al Kuwayt)

(21) Montezuma's "Bald" version of this plant is the national tree of Mexico. A version of
this tree is known as macrocarpa in New Zealand, while a "Lone" example on Pebble Beach
is an iconic symbol of the Monterey Peninsula. For the point, name this type of tree, which is
not to be confused with an island that has its capital at Nicosia.

ANSWER: Cypress Trees (accept Bald Cypress; accept Lone Cypress; prompt on "Tree")

(22) One of these facilities contains the tallest one-story building in the U.S. outside an
urban area, which is called the Vehicle Assembly Building. Another one of these facilities
called Baikonur in Kazakhstan is leased to Russia and is called a Cosmodrome. For the point,
name these facilities from which astronauts depart for missions.

ANSWER: Spaceport (accept clear knowledge equivalents, such as Space Launch Sites)

(23) This country contains the only place George Washington visited outside the U.S. This
country's locals are known as Bajans [[BAY-juns]], and that group includes figures such as
Rhianna. A blue and yellow flag with a trident represents, for the point, what Caribbean
country that is governed from Bridgetown?

ANSWER: Barbados
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                                Round 3


(24) This river is formed from the Kara Su and Murat Su north of the Keban Dam. This
river roughly forms Rojava's southwestern border, and Lake Assad was formed from a dam
on this river that flows past Raqqah in Syria. For the point, name this river that bounds
western Mesopotamia, which is frequently associated with the Tigris.

ANSWER: Euphrates

(25) The retailer Target is headquartered in this city which is known for its large Somali
community. The I-35 West Bridge collapsed in this city in 2007, and this city's Hennepin
County Government Center was the site of the Derek Chauvin trial. A "Twin City" with St.
Paul, this is, for the point, what largest city of Minnesota?

ANSWER: Minneapolis (do not accept or prompt on "St. Paul")



Extra Questions
(1)     Ramallah is the de facto capital of this polity that controls the town of Bethlehem.
This polity was officially established by Yasser Arafat, and Egypt and Jordan formerly
occupied the territory of this polity, whose smaller portion is controlled by Hamas. For the
point, name this claimed state that consists of Gaza and the West Bank, much of which is
occupied by Israel.

ANSWER: State of Palestine (or Dawlat Filasṭīn)

(2)   This lake is fed by the River Oich in the Great Glen valley. This lake is the largest by
volume in the Caledonian Canal, which connects Fort William to Inverness and also includes
Loch Lomond. For the point, name this Scottish lake which allegedly houses a mythical
monster.

ANSWER: Loch Ness (accept Loch Ness Monster)
