2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                     Octofinals



(E) Geography Bee Octofinals
Regulation Tossups
(1)     Georgian Bay and Thunder Bay are suspected locations of the origin of this
language family, whose members include Blackfoot, Cheyenne, and Ojibwe. Most
speakers of this language family sided with the French (+) against the Iroquois in the
Seven Years' War. Extinct languages, such as Mohican and (*) Powhatan belong to, for the
points, what language family that stretches over eastern Canada?

ANSWER: Algonquian Languages (or Algonkian Languages; accept Plans Algonquian;
accept Central Algonquian; accept Eastern Algonquian; accept Proto-Algonquian; prompt
on "Algic Languages")

(2)      This city's LaVell Edwards Stadium is annually transformed into the "stadium
of fire" for the America's Freedom Festival. This city, home to Cosmo the Cougar, (+)
lies on a namesake river that rises in the Uintah [[oo-IN-ta]] Mountains and flows
through the Jordanelle Reservoir. (*) Orem is a suburb of, for the points, what city in Utah
that is home to Brigham Young University?

ANSWER: Provo

(3)    This mountain, bound by Saleh Bay and Mojo Island, forms the Sangaar
Peninsula. This volcano on Sumbawa (+) Island was formerly the world's second-
highest island peak, but its height was reduced to 9,350 feet after the Holocene's
largest eruption. Causing the "year without a summer" in (*) 1816, this is, for the points,
what stratovolcano in Indonesia?

ANSWER: Mount Tambora (or Mount Tomboro)

(4)    One of these features, named Skjaldbreiður [[SKYALD-breh-thoor]], produced
the Plains of Thingvellir, a site where Iceland's parliament once assembled. The
world's most voluminous mountain, (+) Mauna Loa, is another example of these
features. Typically large and producing low viscosity (*) lava, these are, for the points,
what volcanoes named for the defensive weapons they resemble?

ANSWER: Shield Volcanoes (prompt on "Volcanoes")

(5)     A namesake aviation plant was founded in this city in 1932, and its corporate
descendant, also named for this city, produces the Sukhoi Su-30. This city, which
received many expellees from the 1825 Decembrist (+) Revolt, was founded to collect
fur taxes from the Buryats. Lying on the Angara (*) River, this is, for the points, what city
in Russia that serves as the administrative center of its namesake oblast?

ANSWER: Irkutsk (accept Irkutsk Aviation Plant; accept Irkutsk Oblast; prompt on "Irkut
Corporation")
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                    Octofinals


(6)    West Quoddy Head extends into this bay, home to the island of Grand Manan.
The Hopewell Rocks are submerged every day by this bay, and the (+) Reversing Falls
empties into this bay after originating from the Saint John River. Located between Nova
Scotia and (*) New Brunswick, this is, for the points, what Bay, which has the world's most
extreme tides?

ANSWER: Bay of Fundy

(7)     This island, home to the Karluk River, contains Fort Abercrombie, noted for its
World War Two fortifications that never saw combat. This island, known for its large
species of brown bear (+) and its native king crab population, is separated by the
Sheilkof Strait from Katmai National (*) Park. For the points, name this largest island in
Alaska.

ANSWER: Kodiak Island (or Qikertaq)

(8)    This region's ports include Saint-Malo and Lorient. The Ploumanac'h [[PLOO-
mah-nahk]] Lighthouse is located on this peninsula's Pink Granite Coast, and the Loire
(+) River empties into the Atlantic Ocean from this peninsula. Brest, Nantes, and (*)
Rennes are cities located in, for the points, what peninsula, the westernmost region of
mainland France?

ANSWER: Brittany (accept Bretagne; accept Breizh; accept Bertaèyn)

(9)    This city is overlooked by Kgale Hill, and this city's namesake dam creates a
reservoir along the Notwane River. This city replaced Mafikeng (+) as the capital of
Bechuanaland Protectorate in 1965 and is the headquarters of the Southern African
Development Community. Lying north of the South (*) African border is, for the points,
what capital of Botswana?

ANSWER: Gaborone (accept Gaborone Dam)

(10) This town's ski resort has its apex at Kachina Peak. A language spoken in this
town is part of the Tiwa family, and speakers of that language regard the return of Blue
Lake (+) in the Carson National Forest as an important event in their history. This town
shares its name with an ancient pueblo located just one mile (*) to its north. For the
points, name this town in New Mexico that is bounded by the Sangre de Cristo Mountains.

ANSWER: Taos (accept Taos Pueblo)
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                     Octofinals


(11) This city is home to the largest Cambodian community on the U.S. East Coast,
and this city's RRRecords [["Triple-R-Records"]] helped popularize "noise music" in
the 1980s. This city at the end of the Concord River (+) is home to Pawtucket Falls along
the Merrimack. Located near the New Hampshire (*) border, this is, for the points, what
city in Massachusetts, whose textile mills made it known as the “cradle of the American
Industrial Revolution”?

ANSWER: Lowell

(12) This region is home to the Hira Cave where the Angel Gabriel supposedly
appeared. This region's Abraj Al Bait [[bah-EET]] is the world's tallest clock tower, (+)
and an Ottoman-constructed railroad named for this region travelled from Damascus
to Medina. Home to the holiest Islamic (*) city, this is, for the points, what Saudi Arabian
region along the Red Sea that includes Mecca?

ANSWER: Hejaz (accept Al-Ḥijāz; accept Hejaz Railway; prompt on "Saudi Arabia" or
"Arabia" until mentioned)

(13) This island's highest peak is Mount Ishizuchi, and its name refers to its regions,
Awa, Tosa, Sanuki, and Iyo. This island is separated from the Chūgoku (+) region by the
Seto Inland Sea, and this island is connected via three bridges to Honshu. Northeast of
Kyushu with a name translating to "four (*) provinces," this is, for the points, what second-
smallest main island of Japan?

ANSWER: Shikoku

(14) One of the three major tributaries of this river has its source near Mount
Tenakourou and flows through Bui National Park, which protects the rare black-and-
white colobus monkey. The Akosombo (+) Dam on this river creates a namesake
reservoir that is the largest in the world. The source of Red, White, and Black (*)
tributaries is, for the points, what river that formerly gave its name to Burkina Faso?

ANSWER: Volta River (accept Lake Volta Reservoir; accept Red Volta; accept White Volta;
accept Black Volta; accept Republic of Upper Volta)

(15) This route runs along a series of volcanic plugs known as the "Nine Sisters,"
which includes Bishop Peak, Morro Rock, and Chumash Peak. This route connects to
the 17-Mile Drive at Pebble (+) Beach, and its "Big Sur Section" includes the Bixby
Bridge. Ending in Mendocino County and serving as the main gateway to (*) Malibu this
is, for the points, what highway that runs along California's western shore?

ANSWER: California State Route 1 (accept Route 1 alone only after "California" is
mentioned; accept Pacific Coast Highway or PCH; accept Cabrillo Highway; prompt on
"Coast Highway" or "Shoreline Highway")
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                     Octofinals


(16) This symbol is used by the micronation Westarctica, which claims Marie Byrd
Land. This symbol, popular in vexillology, is seen on the flags of Calais [[KA-lay]] (+)
and the Shetland Islands. Historically used to represent the Kalmar (*) Union, this is, for
the points, what symbol that appears on the flags of Iceland, Norway, and Sweden?

ANSWER: Nordic Cross (prompt on partial answers; accept Scandinavian Cross)

(17) The delta region of this river, also known as the Hồng Hà, is the proposed origin
site of the Austroasiatic Languages. This river, which passes by the border city of Lào
Cai, (+) has its source near Dali in the Yunnan Province. This river empties south of the
port of Haiphong into the Gulf of Tonkin. Flowing through (*) Hanoi, this is, for the points,
what river, named for the color of its silty water?

ANSWER: Red River (accept Hồng Hà or Hong River before mentioned; accept Sông Cái;
accept Yuan River)

(18) This city’s Ala Too Square is the central part of the city and contains a statue of
Manas. This city's White House presidential office building was the site of 2005’s Tulip
Revolution (+) that deposed President Askar Akayev. Located in the Chuy River Valley
in the Tien Shan Mountain (*) Range, this is, for the points, what most-populous city and
capital of Kyrgyzstan?

ANSWER: Bishkek (or Pishpek; or Frunze)

(19) This city, which controls exclaves in the municipalities of Triesenberg and
Schaan, is home to the Cathedral of St. Florin. Grauspitz is visible from this city, (+)
whose royals did not step foot in it for over a century after it was granted to them in
1719, this city is overlooked by the residence of Prince Hans-Adam (*) II. For the points,
name this sole national capital on the Rhine River, the capital of Liechtenstein.

ANSWER: Vaduz

(20) The north shore of Long Island was given this name in the 1900s due to the
affluence of towns like Oyster Bay, which inspired The Great Gatsby. A resort of this
name north of the New South Wales (+) border contains a beach called Surfers Paradise
and is home to the Q1, Australia's tallest building. Formerly used to describe (*) Ghana,
this is, for the points, what name that includes a precious metal?

ANSWER: Gold Coast (prompt on partial answers)

(21) This lake, drained by the Ruzizi River, has potential to experience limnic
eruptions due to its high carbon dioxide content. This lake's largest island is Idjwi
[[EEJ-wee]], (+) while its ports include Goma and Bukavu. Draining into Lake (*)
Tanganyika, this is, for the points, what African Great Lake located between the Democratic
Republic of the Congo and Rwanda?

ANSWER: Lake Kivu
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                        Octofinals


(22) After unloading cotton in this valley's Playa Bagdad, camels would return over
100 miles to Camp Verde. SpaceX's Boca Chica Launch Site (+) is located in this valley
and is where the last Civil War battle at Palmito Ranch took place. McAllen, Matamoros,
and (*) Brownsville are major cities in, for the points, what valley that is split between Texas
and Mexico?

ANSWER: Lower Rio Grande Valley (prompt on "The Valley")

(23) This city at the center of Africa's largest magnetic anomaly is home to the
Boganda National Museum. This city's largest suburb is Bimbo, and this city was
captured by Séléka (+) forces in 2013. Jean-Bedel Bokassa crowned himself emperor
in this city on the north bank of the Ubangi (*) River. For the points, name this capital of
the Central African Republic.

ANSWER: Bangui (or Bangî)

(24) These mountains include Khüiten [[KOO-eh-teng]] Peak and are the only
known place where all three known species of hominids once lived together, in and
around its Denisova Cave. (+) Belukha is the highest peak in this range's "Golden
Mountains" and contain the sources of the Ob and (*) Irtysh rivers. For the points, name
these mountains at the junction of Russia, Mongolia, China, and Kazakhstan.

ANSWER: Altai Mountains (or Altay Mountains)

(25) This archipelago's easternmost island is Amorgos, and it contains Europe's
oldest synagogue on the island of Delos. Tourists to this archipelago flock to the town
Oia [[EE-ah]] (+) to capture pictures of the sunset around the volcano that caused the
Minoan eruption. Naxos and (*) Syros are islands that are a part of, for the points, what
Greek archipelago that also contains Santorini and Mykonos?

ANSWER: Cyclades
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                 Octofinals


Extra Questions
(1)    This city is overlooked by Mount Illimani and is connected by cable car to El
Alto, with which it forms the world's highest major urban area. (+) This city is in a
valley of the Andean Altiplano and is known as Chuqi Yapu in Aymara. A dual capital
with (*) Sucre, this is, for the points, what legislative capital of Bolivia?

ANSWER: La Paz (or Nuestra Señora de La Paz; accept Chuqi Yapu until mentioned)

(2)    One park in this city contains a famous staircase with a large, mosaic
salamander nicknamed "El Drac" in the center. This city is home to a many-spired, (+)
incomplete basilica, expected to be finished in 2026. Park Güell and La Sagrada (*)
Família are located in, for the points, what capital of Catalonia?

ANSWER: Barcelona

(3)    Named after a Spanish word for "pelican," notable residents of this island
included Mickey Cohen and Robert Stroud, (+) the "Birdman of [this island]." Occupied
by the American Indian Movement in 1969, this island is accessible from Fisherman's
(*) Wharf. For the points, name this former prison island in San Francisco Bay.

ANSWER: Alcatraz Island (accept Alcatraz Federal Penitentiary; accept Birdman of
Alcatraz)
