2022 Elementary School Geography Bee                                                           Round 1



(E) Geography Round 1
Regulation Tossups
(1)     The northernmost point of this mountain range is known as the Rif. The rain
shadow of this mountain range helped form the Sahara Desert. Mount Toubkal is the highest
peak of, for the point, what mountain range in Africa that stretches from Tunisia to Morocco
and is named for a mythical Titan who held the sky on his back?

ANSWER: Atlas Mountains

(2)    This state that is home to the archaeological site of Tres Zapotes has its capital at
Xalapa [[hah-LAH-pah]]. This state controls the east side of Pico de Orizaba, and it was
founded when Hernán Cortés first landed in Mexico. For the point, identify this Mexican
state whose name means “True Cross.”

ANSWER: Veracruz (or Free and Sovereign State of Veracruz de la Llave; accept Heroica
Veracruz)

(3)    An annual festival southwest of this city has contestants throw a dead mullet
between state lines. This city contains an obelisk dedicated to William Dudley Chipley, a
man who constructed a railroad that stretched west to the Apalachicola River at the town of
Chattahoochee. For the point, identify this westernmost city in the panhandle of Florida.

ANSWER: Pensacola

(4)     This sea's islet of Sveti Stefan was converted into a luxury hotel by connecting it to
Budva Municipality via a tombolo. This sea's inlets include the Gulf of Trieste, and this sea is
used as a vertical datum to measure peaks of the Dinaric Alps. Dubrovnik is the “Pearl of,”
for the point, what sea between Italy and the Balkans?

ANSWER: Adriatic Sea (accept Pearl of the Adriatic)

(5)    The volcano Mount Apo overlooks this island's largest city, Davao. This island, which
is grouped with the Sulu Archipelago, is located north of the Celebes [[SEH-leh-bess]] Sea.
The Moro conflict is an ongoing insurgency on and around, for the point, what
southernmost island of the Philippines, the site of Muslim separatism?

ANSWER: Mindanao

(6)     This region's northernmost portion contains the Torngat Mountains. This region's
town of Happy Valley-Goose Bay is located on the Churchill River, which contains the
world's second-largest manmade lake, the Smallwood Reservoir. For the point, identify this
region of Canada that forms a province with Newfoundland.

ANSWER: Labrador (accept Newfoundland and Labrador)
2022 Elementary School Geography Bee                                                           Round 1


(7)    This island, which is inhabited by the indigenous Batak and Minangkabau [[MEE-
nahng-KAH-bao]] peoples, contains the Toba supervolcano in its Barisan Mountains. The
Sunda Strait separates Java from the southern coast of this island. For the point, identify this
Indonesian island, which is located across the Strait of Malacca from the Malay Peninsula.

ANSWER: Sumatra

(8)     Rehoboth Beach and Ocean City are resorts on this peninsula, whose city of Lewes is
connected to Cape May via ferry. The Chincoteague ponies live on this peninsula's offshore
island of Assateague. Located on the east of Chesapeake Bay, the city of Dover lies on, for the
point, what peninsula whose name is a portmanteau of three states?

ANSWER: Delmarva Peninsula

(9)     This island, where Thomas the Apostle was shipwrecked en route to India, lies east
of the Guardafui Channel from Puntland. This island’s xeric [[ZEE-rik]] landscape is known
for endemic species like the Dragon Blood Tree. For the point, name this island of Yemen
located off the Horn of Africa.

ANSWER: Socotra (or Suquṭrā)

(10) This commodity is produced on plantations by the Cargill corporation. A haze in a
region of Asia has been caused by the clearing of tropical rainforests for production of this
oil. Malaysia and Indonesia are the two largest producers of, for the point, what
controversial vegetable oil derived from a type of tree?

ANSWER: Palm Oil (accept Palm Oil Mill Effluent; prompt on "Oil;" prompt on "Cooking
Oil;" prompt on "Vegetable Oil")

(11) Bukit Bintang is the main shopping district of this city, which is known for its Batu
Caves that contain a massive gold statue of Lord Murugan. This city is the home of the
world's tallest twin towers, the Petronas Towers. For the point, identify this city in
Southeast Asia, the capital of Malaysia.

ANSWER: Kuala Lumpur (accept KL)

(12) Todt Hill is the highest point of this island and the entire Atlantic Coastal Plain.
Synonymous with Richmond County, this island receives the busiest ferry route in the U.S.
at St. George Terminal. This island is connected to Brooklyn via the Verrazano-Narrows
Bridge. For the point, name this island and southernmost borough of New York City.

ANSWER: Staten Island (accept Richmond County before mentioned)
2022 Elementary School Geography Bee                                                      Round 1


(13) This region's indigenous language is Euskara [[yoo-SKAH-rah]]. This region's capital
is Vitoria-Gasteiz, and this region's city of Guernica was subjected to a bombing campaign
by the Condor Legion. For the point, name this autonomous region of northwestern Spain,
which is home to a notable isolated language.

ANSWER: Basque Country (or Basque Autonomous Community; or Euskadi; or País
Vasco; or Euskal Autonomia Erkidegoa; or EAE; or Comunidad Autónoma del País Vasco;
or CAPV)

(14) This city is served by the Muhammad Ali International Airport. This city is home to
the "World's Largest Baseball Bat" outside a factory that makes this city's namesake
“Slugger.” For the point, name this city with many sporting connections, including the
Kentucky Derby.

ANSWER: Louisville (accept Louisville Slugger)

(15) This mountain's peak is contained within the Gran Cono, which was formed from the
collapse of Mount Sommo. An observatory on this mountain monitors the Phlegraean Fields
as part of the Campanian volcanic arc. Herculaneum was destroyed by, for the point, what
volcano that buried Pompeii in 79 AD?

ANSWER: Mount Vesuvius (or Vesuvio)

(16) This museum displays part of the Cape York meteorite, the largest on display in the
Northern Hemisphere. A statue of this museum's founder was moved to North Dakota due
to its depiction of a Native American man and an African man in subordinate positions.
Adjoining Central Park, this is, for the point, what New York museum founded by Theodore
Roosevelt?

ANSWER: American Museum of Natural History (accept AMNH; prompt on "American" or
"Natural History")

(17) This city that is home to the largest Jewish cemetery in Europe is famed for its
astronomical clock, which is six centuries old. 30 statues line this city's Charles Bridge,
which crosses the Vltava River. For the point, identify this largest city in Bohemia, the
capital of the Czech Republic.

ANSWER: Prague (or Praha)

(18) Lloydminster and Moose Jaw are cities in this province that has completely
rectangular borders. Reindeer and Athabasca are both lakes in this province that borders
North Dakota and the Northwest Territories. Regina is the capital of, for the point, what
Canadian province with capital at Saskatoon?

ANSWER: Saskatchewan
2022 Elementary School Geography Bee                                                         Round 1


(19) The "Sword of [this city]" was presented to its former namesake by Winston
Churchill during the Tehran Conference. This city contains the world's largest statue of a
woman, which is titled The Motherland Calls. For the point, name this Russian city that is
named for the longest river in Europe.

ANSWER: Volgograd (accept Stalingrad; accept Tsaritsyn; accept Sword of Stalingrad;
accept Battle (or Siege) of Stalingrad))

(20) This island's eastern coast is followed by the Canal des Pangalanes [[pahn-gah-LAH-
nehs]]. The elephant bird was formerly endemic to this island that is the world's top
producer of vanilla and sapphires and is home to the Avenue of the Baobabs. For the point,
name this island east of Mozambique, the only native habitat of lemurs.

ANSWER: Madagascar (or Madagasikara; accept Republic of Madagascar; accept
Republique de Madagascar; accept Repoblikan'i Madagasikara)

(21) It’s not Turkey, but Mount Ararat is a national symbol of this country. The Nagorno-
Karabakh autonomous region area decreased in area following a conflict between this
country and Azerbaijan. For the point, name this smallest Transcaucasian country, which
has its capital at Yerevan.

ANSWER: Republic of Armenia (or Hayastani Hanrapetut'yun)

(22) A marker to this feature is found in the town of Ruisui, and the highest point on this
feature is Yu Shan. This feature reaches its westernmost terrestrial point at Baja California,
and the sun lies directly overhead to viewers on this line during the June Solstice. For the
point, identify this geographical line that is named for a constellation resembling a crab.

ANSWER: Tropic of Cancer (accept Northern Tropic before "Northern" is mentioned; do
not accept or prompt on "Tropic of Capricorn")

(23) This language is the most widely spoken of the Austroasiatic languages. This
language, which originally used the Chữ Nôm script, is now the most-spoken Asian language
to chiefly use the Latin script, due to French rule. Nguyen [[WEE-IN]] is a common surname
in, for the point, what language spoken in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City?

ANSWER: Vietnamese (accept Tiếng Việt)

(24) This country's Khawr al Udayd is the proposed site of the Salwa Canal, which would
make this country an island. This country is ruled by the al-Thani family, and it was
blockaded by the Gulf Cooperation Council after it was accused of supporting terrorism. For
the point, name this peninsular country on the Persian Gulf that has its capital at Doha.

ANSWER: State of Qatar (or Dawlat Qatar)
2022 Elementary School Geography Bee                                                             Round 1


(25) This U.S. state’s southeastern border is formed by the Snake River. This state, which
is home to some of the snowiest places in the continental U.S. at Mount Baker and Mount
Rainier, also contains Tacoma. For the point, name this state which is home to Olympia and
the Space Needle in Seattle.

ANSWER: Washington



Extra Questions
(1)    This border between a country and a division of another country runs past the
Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument and has Nogales as its largest city. This border,
created by the Gadsden Purchase, contains a section near Yuma on the Colorado River. For
the point, name this border that separates a state governed from Phoenix from a country to
the south.

ANSWER: Mexico-Arizona Border (accept US-Sonora border until "Phoenix")

(2)      This region's town of Palo Alto is home to the garage where Hewlett-Packard was
founded. This region, which is named after the fourteenth element of the periodic table, has
its largest city at San Jose. For the point, name this "Valley" in the Bay Area of California that
is known for its technology sector.

ANSWER: Silicon Valley
