2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                       Semifinals



(E) Geography Bee Semifinals
Regulation Tossups
(1)     This archipelago is traversed by the Middle East's first monorail, which shuttles
visitors from Internet City to an Atlantis Resort. This archipelago shares its shape with
archipelagoes at Deira and Jebel Ali, (+) and this archipelago is named for the Jumeirah
neighborhood. Constructed in the style of a specific type (*) of tree, this is, for the points,
what artificial archipelago off Dubai's coast?

ANSWER: Palm Jumeirah (accept Palm Islands)

(2)     This city's Diamond Tooth Gertie's Gambling Hall is the oldest casino in Canada,
and this city, nicknamed the "Paris of the North," is among the westernmost to use
Mountain (+) Time. This city's Bonanza Creek was the site of a gold discovery in 1896,
which led to the largest gold rush in history and was named for the (*) Klondike Region.
For the points, name this second-largest city in Yukon.

ANSWER: Dawson City

(3)      This mountain's highest point is known as Low's Peak, named after a British
official who ascended it with a Dusun guide. This peak, Asia's highest mountain island,
is located in the Crocker Range of (+) Sabah, and contains the massive rafflesia flower
as well as (*) orangutans on its slopes. For the points, name this highest peak of Malaysia
and Borneo.

ANSWER: Mount Kinabalu (or Gunung Kinabalu)

(4)     This city is the seat of Snohomish County and is separated from Whidbey Island
by Possession Sound. This city recorded the first case of COVID-19 in the U.S., and its
Paine Field (+) adjoins a factory that is the world's largest building by volume, where
the Dreamliner is built. Home to the production site of Boeing's (*) aircraft, this is, for
the points, what Washington city, north of Seattle?

ANSWER: Everett (accept Boeing Everett Factory)

(5)    This city's Maydan al Shajara square was formerly known for its Atlas Cedar
tree and is located on Gamal Abdel al-Nasser Street. The "Lion of the Desert" was
executed in this city for leading resistance against Italian (+) colonial officials, and
Fathi Terbil's arrest in this city set off a Civil War, which led to the formation of the
National Transitional (*) Council. For the points, name this second-largest city of Libya.

ANSWER: Benghazi
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                    Semifinals


(6)     This national park’s McKittrick Canyon is the site of a house called the “Ship on
the Desert.” Dell City in Hudspeth County (+) is the southern gateway to this national
park, which unofficially observes Mountain Time. Towering over the Chihuahuan (*)
Desert, this is, for the points, what national park which is home to Texas's highest peak?

ANSWER: Guadalupe Mountains National Park (prompt on partial answers; prompt on
"Guadalupe Peak")

(7)    This river's source lies at the pyramidal peak of Monte Viso in the Cottian Alps,
and its mouth lies near the city of Adria [[AH-dree-ah]]. This river, whose main
tributary is the Ticino [[tee-CHEE-noh]], (+) forms much of Emilia-Romagna's northern
border and also flows through the capital city of Piedmont, (*) Turin. For the points,
name this longest river of Italy.

ANSWER: Po River

(8)     This archipelago's village of Hog Hammock is illegal to visit without a tourism
permit, and its town of Port Royal contains the Marine Corps Recruit Training for
troops living east of the Mississippi. This archipelago's "Golden Isles," (+) including St.
Simons and Jekyll Island, hosted the G8 summit. Inhabited by the Gullah, (*) this is, for
the points, what archipelago off of the coast of Georgia?

ANSWER: Sea Islands

(9)     This lake, known as Kati Thanda in Ngarabana, is fed by the Warburton River
and is part of the Great Artesian Basin. This seasonal lake lies between Lake Torrens
(+) and the Simpson Desert and contains the highest continental low point, at only 52
feet below sea level. The Goyder Channel connects (*) the North and South sections of, for
the points, what largest lake in Australia?

ANSWER: Lake Eyre (or Kati Thanda-Lake Eyre)

(10) This mountain range's site Durupınar is said to contain the petrified ruins of
Noah's Ark. This mountain range supposedly contained the entrance to the
underworld of Kur, and Sulaymaniyah [[SOO-lay-mah-NYE-ah]] and Shiraz (+) are
cities in this mountain range that roughly stretches from Lake Van to the Strait of
Hormuz. (*) For the points, name this mountain range between Iraq and Iran.

ANSWER: Zagros Mountains (or Koyal Zagros; or Çiyakani Zagros)

(11) The mouth of this river at Port Arthur is the site of Motiva, the largest oil
refinery in the U.S. This river was the smallest of the three used to create the
Viceroyalty of New Spain's borders in the Adams-Onis (+) Treaty. The largest manmade
lake in the Southern U.S., the Toledo Bend Reservoir (*) is located in, for the points, what
river which forms much of the border between Texas and Louisiana?

ANSWER: Sabine River
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                        Semifinals


(12) It's not Saint Martin, but this island's Mai Khao beach is known for its close-up
views plane landings at its third-busiest airport behind Don Mueang. A "Big Buddha"
monument overlooks this island connected to Phang (+) Nga Province by the Sarasin
Bridge in the Andaman Sea. With its active nightlife centered on Patong, this is, (*) for
the points, what largest island in Thailand?

ANSWER: Phuket (accept Phuket Province)

(13) This river, which forms much of La Rioja's [[ree-OH-hahs]] border, historically
marked the Roman-Carthaginian border. This river's delta in the Province of
Tarragona (+) marks the Gulf of Valencia's northern extent. Flowing past Zaragoza into
the Balearic (*) Sea, this is, for the points, what longest river completely within Spain?

ANSWER: Ebro River (or Ebre River)

(14) This lake is separated from the Ghoubbet-el-Kharab cove by the Ardoukoba.
This lake, located at the junction of the Arta, Tadjoura, and Dikhil Regions is the
world's most saline (+) lake outside of Antarctica, and its lowest point, at over 500 feet
below sea level, is on the Afar Triangle. The site of the lowest (*) point in Africa is, for the
points, what this crater lake in Djibouti?

ANSWER: Lake Assal (or Buḥayrah ʿAsal)

(15) Mons and Namur are cities of this region whose town of Spa, nestled in the
Ardennes, gave its name to the modern English term. This region, which contains the
smallest German-speaking (+) community in its country, has traditionally been
represented with a red rooster. (*) For the points, name this majority French-speaking
region of Belgium.

ANSWER: Wallonia (or Wallonie; accept Waals gewest)

(16) This city isn't in Spain, but it contains the Estadio Monumental Banco Pichincha
[[pee-CHEEN-chah]] used by the Barcelona Sporting Club. This city's namesake gulf
contains Puna Island, (+) and this city on the Guayas [[GWAH-yahs]] River is the main
gateway to the Galapagos (*) Islands. For the points, name this largest city of Ecuador.

ANSWER: Santiago de Guayaquil (or Wayakil; accept Gulf of Guayaquil; accept Guayaquil
conference)

(17) This national park's Geologfjord [[JEE-oh-lohg-fyord]], which includes the
Nunatak Glacier, can be accessed from Ittoqqortoormiit [[ee-TOHK-oh-toor-mit]]. (+)
This national park includes Summit Station, a center of coring activities 10,000 feet
above sea level on a massive ice sheet. The largest national park in (*) the world is, for
the points, what park, which occupies a quarter of the world's largest island?

ANSWER: Northeast Greenland National Park
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                     Semifinals


(18) This highway only enters its namesake city on a section called the Woodrow
Wilson Bridge, which passes by National Harbor. This highway is formally known as
Interstate 495, (+) and Bethesda and Alexandria are cities along this highway, which
passes over the (*) Potomac twice. For the points, name this highway that encircles
Washington, D.C.

ANSWER: Capital Beltway (accept Interstate 495 before mentioned; prompt on
"Beltway"; prompt on descriptive answers of the highway around D.C.)

(19) This lake was the largest of a system that included Zumpango and Chalco, which
hosted a type of salamander called the axolotl [[ak-soh-LAH-til]]. The draining of this
lake (+) has been cited as the reason for a recent lack of snow in the Anahuac [[ah-NAH-
hwahk]] (*) region. For the points, name this lake on which the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan
was built.

ANSWER: Lake Texcoco (or Lago de Texcoco)

(20) This phenomenon is preceded by Sundowner winds in the Santa Ynez [[EE-
nehs]] Mountains. This phenomenon, which originates from dry high-pressure air
masses in the Great Basin, (+) expedited the burning of houses in San Bernardino and
(*) Malibu. For the points, name these winds that often spread wildfires in Southern
California.

ANSWER: Santa Ana Winds (or Devil Winds)

(21) This river, that includes the Supung and Ubung Dams, was nicknamed "MiG
Alley" in the 1950s. This river, like the Tumen, also has its source on Paektu (+)
Volcano and was crossed by the People's Volunteer Army in 1950 to counter
encroaching UN (*) forces. For the points, name this river that forms the western border
between North Korea and China.

ANSWER: Yalu River (accept Amnok or Amrok before "Amnok" is mentioned)

(22) Arms of this body of water include the Gulf of Catania and the Laconian Gulf.
This body of water, which is home to the deepest part of the Mediterranean Sea, (+)
makes up the southern coast of Albania and the western coast of the Peloponnese.
Connected to the Tyrrhenian Sea by the Strait of (*) Messina, this is, for the points, what
European sea located south of the Adriatic?

ANSWER: Ionian Sea (prompt on "Mediterranean" before mentioned)
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                  Semifinals


(23) This city's tallest building, the New Reserve Bank Tower, is headquarters of an
organization that printed a dollar bill with the most zeroes in history in 2008. This city
in the Mashonaland (+) was formerly known as Salisbury when it was the capital of
Rhodesia, before it got its current name in 1982 from Robert (*) Mugabe. For the points,
name this capital of Zimbabwe.

ANSWER: Harare (accept Salisbury before mentioned)

(24) This mountain range contains Hunter Mountain, as well as its highest peak,
Slide Mountain. Along with the Poconos, this mountain range forms an eastern
escarpment of the Allegheny (+) Plateau, which was formerly nicknamed the "Borscht
Belt" or "Jewish Alps.” Located between the Delaware and (*) Hudson Rivers, this is, for
the points, what mountain range in Southern New York?

ANSWER: Catskill Mountains (or Catskills)

(25) This city administers the National Park Reserve of Sable Island and is home to
three campuses of Dalhousie [[dal-HOW-see]] University. This city annually sends a
Christmas tree to Boston (+) in memory of the aid this city was sent following the 1917
collision of the SS Mont-Blanc and the SS Imo, which devastated this city and nearby (*)
Dartmouth. For the points, name this capital of Nova Scotia.

ANSWER: Halifax (accept Halifax Explosion)
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                    Semifinals


Extra Questions
(1)     This city houses the National Czech and Slovak Museum and Library. In a viral
2016 video, Hillary Clinton said she "was just chilling" in this city where catastrophic
flooding in 2008 submerged the (+) Linn County Courthouse. Home to the studio where
Grant Wood painted American Gothic (*), this is, for the points, what second-largest Iowa
city, named for nearby cascades?

ANSWER: Cedar Rapids

(2)    This city's Marienplatz is famed for its Mariensäule [[mah-REE-en-soy-leh]]
column and a tower that contains the Rathaus-Glockenspiel clock. This city on the Isar
River hosted the 1972 (+) Summer Olympics, marred by the murder of 11 Israeli
athletes by the Palestinian Black September terrorist organization. Hosting the
original Oktoberfest (*) is, for the points, what German city, the capital of Bavaria?

ANSWER: Munich (or München; or Minga)

(3)    The Manga District of this nation has been disputed after much of it was given
to a neighbor through the Radcliffe Line. The Ahsan Manzil is a distinct pink palace
along the Buringa River in this nation’s capital. (+) The shipbreaking capital of the
world is this nation’s port of Chittagong. (*) For the points, name this South Asian country
with capital at Dhaka.

ANSWER: Bangladesh (or People's Republic of Bangladesh; or Gana Prajatantri
Bangladesh)
