2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                                      Round 2



(E) Geography Bee Round 2
Regulation Tossups
(1)    This city, formerly known as Novo-Arkhangelsk, contains the oldest Orthodox
Cathedral in the Americas. This city is the largest city in the U.S. by size, and it occupies all of
Baranof Island and half of Chichagof Island. For the point, name this former capital of
Russian America, a city-borough of Alaska.

ANSWER: Sitka (or Sheetʼká; accept Novo-Arkhangelsk or New Archangel before
mentioned)

(2)     This river passes through the Flaming Gorge Reservoir and Dinosaur National
Monument. This river meets its end in Canyonlands National Park, and this river merges
with a body of water formerly known as the Grand River. For the point, name this longest
tributary of the Colorado River, which is named for a color.

ANSWER: Green River

(3)     A free economic zone in this city is home to Yeongjongdo [[YONG-JONG-DOH]], an
island that is home to an airport that replaced Gimpo. The Russo-Japanese War began at this
city's Chemulpo Bay, where U.S. forces landed in 1950 in the Pusan Perimeter. For the point,
name this third-largest city in South Korea, the site of an amphibious landing in wartime.

ANSWER: Incheon Metropolitan City (accept Chemulpo until mentioned)

(4)     Huasteca is the most-spoken variant of this language that forms a family with the
Ute [[YOOT]] languages. This language was documented in the Florentine Codex, and the
words for tomato and chocolate originate from this language, which La Malinche [[mah-
LEEN-cheh]] translated for Hernán Cortés. For the point, name this language spoken by the
Aztecs.

ANSWER: Nahuatl (accept Aztec or Mexicano before mentioned)

(5)     This city's namesake peak in the Elk Mountains is called "Ajax" by locals. That peak
is one of this city's four ski areas along with Highlands, Buttermilk, and Snowmass. Situated
west of Mount Elbert, this is, for the point, what posh Colorado ski resort town that shares
its name with a type of tree?

ANSWER: Aspen (accept Aspen Mountain)
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                                Round 2


(6)     A narrow strip of territory from this modern-day country was ceded to
Afghanistan's Badakhshan Province. Recent conflicts with this country’s neighbor,
Kyrgyzstan, erupted over water scarcity in the Transoxania Region. For the point, name this
Central Asian country whose capital city is Dushanbe.

ANSWER: Republic of Tajikistan (or Jumhurii Tojikiston)

(7)     This city is known for its keyhole-shaped Mozu Tombs from the Kofun Era, which
are adjacent to Daisen Park. This city is the center of the Kansai Region, which also includes
the cities of Kobe and Kyoto. For the point, name this city, the center of Japan's second-
largest metro area.

ANSWER: Osaka

(8)     This lake is fed by the Kagera and Katonga Rivers, the latter of which links this lake
to Lake George. This lake, which is the source of the White Nile, lies on the junction between
the countries of Uganda, Kenya, and Tanzania. For the point, name this largest lake in Africa,
which is named for a British queen.

ANSWER: Lake Victoria

(9)     This country is home to the Hlane Royal National Park, and this country's flag was
designed by Sobhuza II. His son, Mswati III, is the "lion-king" of this country and rules with
the "She-Elephant" queen, or Ndlovukati [[nnd-loh-voo-KAH-tee]]. Mbabane is the capital of,
for the point, what kingdom between Mozambique and South Africa?

ANSWER: Kingdom of Eswatini (accept Umbuso weSwatini; accept Swaziland)

(10) This country's Yaohnanen people are known for their cargo cults, which hold John
Frum and Prince Phillip as holy figures. Efate and Espiritu Santo are the largest islands of
this country, which was formerly called the New Hebrides. For the point, name this country
in the South Pacific governed from Port Vila.

ANSWER: Republic of Vanuatu (accept Ripablik blong Vanuatu; accept New Hebrides
before mentioned)

(11) This region's Cueva de las Manos depicts hundreds of handprints and a herd of
guanacos, a type of camelid. This dry region that forms the southernmost part of the "Arid
Diagonal" with the Monte and Atacama Deserts is separated from Tierra del Fuego by the
Strait of Magellan. For the point, name this region of Southern Argentina.

ANSWER: Patagonia (accept Santa Cruz Province until "Neuquén" is mentioned; prompt
on "Argentina" until mentioned)
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                                 Round 2


(12) This island contains a re-purposed funicular track, now known as Jacob's Ladder,
that connects Half Tree Hollow to Jamestown. This island, that administers Tristan da
Cunha and Ascension Island, is served by a weekly flight to Johannesburg via Windhoek
[[“WIND”-“hook”]]. For the point, name this British island in the Atlantic Ocean, the site of
Napoleon's second exile.

ANSWER: Saint Helena

(13) This country's southern region of Equatoria controversially claims ownership of the
Ilemi Triangle. This country's largest ethnic groups are the Dinka and the Nuer, and this
country contains the Sudd swamp. Governed from Juba, this is, for the point, what country
that gained its independence from Sudan?

ANSWER: Republic of South Sudan (do not accept or prompt on "Sudan")

(14) This city's Öskjuhlíd [[OHSK-yoo-leed]] hill contains an exhibition hall that contains
a replica of Látrabjarg [[LAH-trah-byarg]], Europe's largest bird cliff. This city is served by
Keflavík International Airport and contains a church with distinctive side wings called
Hallgrímskirkja [[HAHLT-greem-skeer-kyah]]. The world's northernmost national capital,
this is, for the point, what largest city of Iceland?

ANSWER: Reykjavík

(15) This company formerly ran properties called Westgate and Flamingo in Las Vegas.
This company's namesake "Beverly" property hosts the Golden Globe ceremonies, and the
Conrad, Waldorf Astoria, and DoubleTree are brands run by this company. Founded by a
man with the first name Conrad, this is, for the point, what American hotel company?

ANSWER: Hilton Hotels & Resorts (accept The Beverly Hilton; accept Conrad Nicholson
Hilton Sr.)

(16) Major ports in this country include Puerto Cabezas [[kah-BEH-sahs]], Bluefields, and
Corinto. With its northern neighbor, this country contains the Mosquito Coast, and this
country's namesake lake and the San Juan River were once considered potential locations
for the Panama Canal. For the point, name this largest country of Central America.

ANSWER: Republic of Nicaragua (or República de Nicaragua; accept Lake Nicaragua)

(17) This territory's namesake "apes" are actually a semi-wild colony of Barbary
Macaques. This territory's namesake Rock is considered the northern portion of the two
Pillars of Hercules. For the point, name this British territory on the southern coast of Spain,
which lies across a namesake strait from Morocco.

ANSWER: Gibraltar (accept Apes of Gibraltar; accept Rock of Gibraltar; accept Strait of
Gibraltar)
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                                   Round 2


(18) This city hosts the world's largest Junkanoo festival and shares its name with a New
York county located east of Queens. Slave revolters from the ship Creole settled in this city,
which is named in honor of William of Orange. Paradise Island's Atlantis Resort is
connected to, for the point, what capital of the Bahamas?

ANSWER: Nassau

(19) This former capital of the viceroyalty of New Granada is the world's highest capital
lying north of the equator. One museum in this city contains the world's largest collection of
gold artifacts, and this city is served by El Dorado Airport. For the point, name this capital of
Colombia.

ANSWER: Bogotá Distrito Capital (accept Bogotá D.C.)

(20) This territory's endemic animal species include the Blue iguana. This territory was
originally named Las Tortugas, and this territory is an extension of the Sierra Maestra range
of Cuba. Sharing its name with a species of crocodilian, this is, for the point, what British
dependency in the Caribbean, known for being a tax haven?

ANSWER: Cayman Islands (accept Caymans)

(21) This sea is overlooked by the planned kilometer-high Kingdom Tower. This sea's
southern exit is called the Bab al-Mandab Strait, which is the site of a proposed bridge
between Yemen and Djibouti. For the point, name this sea that borders Saudi Arabia and
Sudan and is named for a color.

ANSWER: Red Sea

(22) A convention signed in Ramsar governs the conservation of these areas, examples of
which include the Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge. Bengal Tigers thrive in one of these
areas called the Sundarbans, and boglands are a type of these areas that accumulate peat.
The Pantanal is an example of, for the point, what type of areas exemplified by the
Everglades?

ANSWER: Wetlands (accept specific types of wetlands such as Swamps or Marshlands;
accept Ramsar Convention on Wetlands of International Importance Especially as
Waterfowl Habitat)

(23) This shire town of Washington County on the Winooski River takes its name from a
major port in Occitania, France. A gold-domed capitol building overlooks this smallest state
capital of the U.S., which contains a statue of Ethan Allen. For the point, name this capital of
Vermont.

ANSWER: Montpelier
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                                 Round 2


(24) A waterway in this country is situated on the Great Glen fault. The Shetland Islands
and Hebrides are archipelagos in this country, the flag of which displays the white x-shaped
cross of St. Andrew on a blue background. For the point, name this constituent country
within the United Kingdom with its capital at Edinburgh.

ANSWER: Scotland (accept Alba; prompt on "United Kingdom," "Britain," or "Great
Britain;" do not accept or prompt on "England")

(25) This city and Trenton are the only modern U.S. state capitals to also have previously
served as the capital of the United States. This city, the host of the penultimate meeting of
the Constitutional Convention in 1786, contains the United States Naval Academy on
Chesapeake Bay. For the point, name this capital of Maryland.

ANSWER: Annapolis



Extra Questions
(1)     Anna Hingley was the first woman to cross this region by horse, travelling from
Broome to Cairns. This region, that is bounded by areas nicknamed "the bush," once hosted
nuclear tests at Emu Field, and the Dingo Fence stretches across this region. Including
Uluru, or Ayers Rock, this is, for the point, what region that consists of Australia's brutal
desert interior?

ANSWER: The Outback (prompt on "Australia")

(2)     This city is home to the Vinayaka Chaturthi festival where idols of Ganesh are
immersed in the Arabian Sea. This city's "Navi" counterpart administers the Elephanta
Caves, and this city contains the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel. For the point, name this largest city
of India, known for its Bollywood Film Industry.

ANSWER: Mumbai (accept Bombay)
