2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                   Quarterfinals



(E) Geography Bee Quarterfinals
Regulation Tossups
(1)   This largest city on the Lech [[LEK]] River, at the eastern edge of Swabia
[[SWAY-bee-ah]], is the third-largest behind Nuremberg in Bavaria. The Schmalkaldic
League (+) and the Holy Roman Emperor formalized the Lutheran-Catholic split
through the Peace of [This City]. (*) For the points, name this city, 31 miles west of Munich.

ANSWER: Augsburg (accept Peace of Augsburg)

(2)    This natural feature is partly located in the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest,
and was the site of an 1887 tragedy involving 34 Chinese miners who departed from
Lewiston, (+) as memorialized by a plaque which is partly written in Nez Perce.
Surrounding the Snake River between Idaho and Oregon, (*) for the points, what is this
deepest river gorge in North America?

ANSWER: Hells Canyon

(3)    This region's town Beziers [[beh-ZYEH]], where the River Orb is crossed by the
Canal du Midi, is known for its bullfighting. Home to the Roman Pont (+) du Gard, this
region, located between Nouvelle-Aquitaine and Provence, includes cities such as
Toulouse and Montpellier. (*) For the points, name this region in south-central France.

ANSWER: Occitanie (or Occitania)

(4)    This national park is the site of Cadillac Mountain, the highest point of the
Atlantic Shoreline in the U.S. This national park is the oldest national park east of the
(+) Mississippi, and its land occupies much of Mount Desert Island and is accessible
from the town of Bar Harbor. (*) For the points, name this national park in Maine.

ANSWER: Acadia National Park

(5)     This archipelago is located north of Nenets Autonomous Okrug and contains
Cape Flissingsky, the easternmost point of Europe, although it's administered by
Archangel Oblast. The largest nuclear explosion in history, (+) the Tsar Bomba,
occurred in this archipelago. Located between the Kara and Barents Seas in Russia, (*)
for the points, what is this extension of the Urals?

ANSWER: Novaya Zemlya
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                 Quarterfinals


(6)    This body of water's major inflows include the Whitefish River and Bloody
River. The largest settlement along the shores of this body of water is named Deline
[[DEH-lee-neh]]. Two of this lake's five arms (+) are named for McTavish and McVicar.
Located northwest of Great Slave Lake, (*) for the points, what is this large lake in the
Canadian Northwest Territories?

ANSWER: Great Bear Lake (or Sahtú)

(7)     This town is the base for daytrips to Saona and Catalina Islands. This town is
part of the La Altagracia Province, governed from Higüey [[ee-GWEH]], and its Bávaro
area contains two Meliá Hotels. This resort town, nicknamed the "Coconut Coast," (+)
is located on the Mona Passage. Located in the easternmost Dominican Republic, (*)
for the points, what is this resort town?

ANSWER: Punta Cana

(8)    The entrance to this strait is guarded by an exclave called the Musandam
Peninsula, and Mohammad Bagheri threatened to close this strait due to sanctions
against his country, threatening a fifth (+) of the world's oil transport. Connecting the
Indian Ocean to the Persian Gulf, (*) for the points, what is this strait?

ANSWER: Strait of Hormuz (or Maḍīq Hurmuz)

(9)    This city was once nicknamed “Copperopolis,” because of its large copper
production during the Industrial Revolution. This city is home to the Dylan Thomas
Theater and Center, and is the birthplace of the poet. (+) Located on a namesake bay
on the Gower Peninsula, (*) for the points, what is this second-most populous city in Wales

ANSWER: Swansea (accept Swansea Bay)

(10) In this mountain range, the World Bank was created at Bretton Woods, situated
near Crawford Notch. The most prominent peak east of the Mississippi River is located
in this mountain range whose "Presidential" (+) section contains Mount Quincy Adams,
and this range formerly contained a rock formation called the "Old Man of the
Mountain." Topped by Mount Washington, (*) for the points, what is this mountain range,
mostly in New Hampshire?

ANSWER: White Mountains (prompt on "Appalachian")

(11) Some have proposed that gravity trains could travel between these types of
points. Approximate types of these points include the paired cities of Madrid and
Wellington, as well as (+) Buenos Aires and Shanghai. People have made "earth
sandwiches" using, (*) for the points, what points that are located on opposite sides of the
globe?

ANSWER: Antipodes (prompt on generic descriptions of points on the opposite sides of the
globe)
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                 Quarterfinals


(12) This street is central to a television show about the world's largest Iranian
diaspora, largely taking place in Westwood and titled Shahs of [This Street]. This street
passes over the I-405 (+) near the Getty Museum and ends at the Pacific Coast Highway.
Home to a namesake “strip,” (*) for the points, what is this Los Angeles Boulevard?

ANSWER: Sunset Boulevard (accept Shahs of Sunset; accept Sunset Strip)

(13) This region, eleven miles wide at its narrowest, was created as a buffer zone in
the "Great Game," and its Wakhjir Pass contains the world's greatest time zone jump.
The Pamir and Panj Rivers bound this salient on the easternmost (+) part of the
Durand Line, which separated Russian Turkestan from British India. With a small
border on China, (*) for the points, what is this easternmost part of Afghanistan?

ANSWER: Wakhan Corridor (or Dâlân Vâxân)

(14) The majority of this island's population are descended from Cayman Islanders,
although a significant portion were expelled from Saint Vincent and are called
Garifuna. (+) This island's capital is Coxen Hole, and it is the largest of the Bay Islands,
located between Guanaja and Utila. (*) For the points, name this largest island of
Honduras.

ANSWER: Roatan (or Rattan)

(15) This province disputes the Kinmen Islands off the coast of Amoy, or Xiamen
[[SHYAH-MEN]], a major port of departure of Hokkien speakers to Southeast Asia, and
the northernmost of China's four original Special Economic Zones. (+) The Min dialect
is spoken in this province which is home to Fuzhou [[FOO-ZHOH]]. West of the Formosa
Strait from Taiwan, (*) for the points, what is this Chinese province?

ANSWER: Fujian (accept Fukien; accept Hokkien before mentioned)

(16) This river is formed by the Otter and the Bois de Sioux [[bwah duh-SOO]] Rivers,
the southernmost part of the Hudson Bay watershed. This river flows through
Winnipeg and forms some of the North (+) Dakota-Minnesota border. Sharing its name
with another river which forms much of the border of Texas and Oklahoma, (*) for the
points, what is this river "of the North"?

ANSWER: Red River of the North

(17) The Qasr al-Banat, or "Palace of the Ladies," is located in this city east of the
Tabqa Dam, whose Shia Uwais al-Qarni Mosque was destroyed (+) in 2014. This is the
largest city of Rojava and was the capital of the Islamic State until its 2017 capture. (*)
For the points, what is this Syrian city?

ANSWER: ar-Raqqah
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                  Quarterfinals


(18) This facility’s location is optimal to allow for polar orbit launches without
passing over other landmasses. Amtrak's Coast Starlight passes through this facility,
running by the Lompoc–Surf station. (+) The first privately-developed liquid-fueled
rocket launched from this base, SpaceX's Falcon 1. Located on California’s Central
Coast, (*) for the points, what is this spaceport?

ANSWER: Vandenberg Space Force Base (or KVBG)

(19) This island's namesake never saw it, while trying to discover it, during the
Kolymskaya expedition. This island is the northernmost piece of land through which
the 180th meridian passes and was home to the last population of Woolly (+)
Mammoths. Located between the East Siberian and Chukchi Seas, (*) for the points, what
is this Siberian island?

ANSWER: Wrangel Island (or Ostrov Vrangelya; or Umqiḷir; accept Ferdinand von
Wrangel)

(20) This archipelago is home to the island of Tinian, the departure point of the
Enola Gay before dropping "Little Boy" on Japan. The indigenous language Chamorro
is spoken on this archipelago whose islands also include Saipan (+) and Guam. Giving
its name to the Pacific Ocean’s deepest trench, (*) for the points, what is this archipelago?

ANSWER: Marianas Islands (accept Northern Marianas Islands or NMI before "military" is
mentioned; accept Marianas Trench; prompt on "Micronesia"; do not accept or prompt on
"Guam")

(21) This island is indented by Hawke Bay, the Bay of Plenty, and the Hauraki Gulf.
This island is home to Lake Taupo and Mount Ruapehu, as well as Hobbiton and other
filming sites from The Lord (+) of the Rings. The world's southernmost national capital,
which is located on the Cook Strait, is on, (*) for the points, what New Zealand island, home
to Wellington and Auckland?

ANSWER: North Island (accept Te Ika-a-Māui)

(22) In this city in 1966, Peter Wing was elected as the first Chinese mayor of a North
American city. After Kelowna, this city is the largest of the Okanagan region and inland
British Columbia. (+) The site of a former Indian Residential School that made the news
after a 2021 discovery, this city is called the "Tournament Capital of Canada.” (*) For
the points, name this city.

ANSWER: Kamloops (or Tk'əmlúps; accept Kamloops Indian Residential School)
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                Quarterfinals


(23) This city's DNA-shaped Alphabetic Tower honors a script used for Kartvelian
languages, and this city is the capital of Adjara. This city, where Joseph Stalin organized
labor strikes, (+) is nicknamed the "Las Vegas of the Black Sea" and lies seven miles
north of the Turkish border. The largest port in the nation Georgia, (*) for the points,
what is this city?

ANSWER: Batumi

(24) A namesake town on this lake avoided bombing during World War Two by
keeping its lights on, fooling pilots into thinking it was part of Thurgau Canton. The
Rhine River flows through this lake (+) divided into Obersee [[OH-behr-zay]] and
Untersee [[OON-tehr-zay]] portions. Shared between Austria, Switzerland, and
Germany, (*) for the points, what is this lake?

ANSWER: Lake Constance (or Bodensee; accept Upper Lake Constance; accept Lower
Lake Constance)

(25) This city's Suncoast casino is located on its beachfront called the "Golden Mile.”
This city's Ushaka Marine world takes its name from King Shaka. Mahatma Gandhi
practiced law in this capital of (+) KwaZulu-Natal, home to Africa's largest Indian
community. South Africa's third-largest city, (*) for the points, what is this port on the
Indian Ocean?

ANSWER: Durban (accept eThekwini; prompt on "Durbs")
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                  Quarterfinals


Extra Questions
(1)    This region's highest peak, Feldberg, overlooks the Vosges [[VOHZH]] on the
opposite side of the Rhine River, and this region in Baden-Württemberg contains the
source of the (+) Danube River. A highland area in southwest Germany known for its
dense foliage, (*) for the points, what is this region also famed for its cuckoo clocks?

ANSWER: Black Forest (or Schwarzwald; prompt on "Baden-Württemberg" before
mentioned)

(2)     This river includes the Hooghly and Padma as distributaries, and pilgrims
cremate their loved ones on this river's banks in the holy city of Varanasi. (+) This
river's longest tributaries include the Yamuna and Brahmaputra, and it empties into
the world's largest river delta. (*) For the points, name this primary river of India.

ANSWER: Ganges River (accept Ganga; accept Padma River before mentioned)

(3)      The moving of this feature eastward around the Line Islands in 1995 caused
Caroline Island to be renamed Millennium Island. The westernmost piece of land east
of this feature is Attu island, part of the Aleutian (+) archipelago, and Samoa "skipped"
December 30th, 2011 by moving west across this feature. Roughly following the
antimeridian is, (*) for the points, what line through the Pacific Ocean that divides one day
from another?

ANSWER: International Date Line (accept IDL; do not accept or prompt on "antimeridian"
or the "180th meridian")
