2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                               Round 4



(E) Geography Bee Round 4
Regulation Tossups
(1)     This county was once governed by the self-proclaimed "Toughest Sheriff," Joe
Arpaio. This county was the largest by population to vote for Donald Trump in 2016, and
this county gave Barry Goldwater the votes he needed to win his home state. For the point,
name this Arizona county governed from Phoenix.

ANSWER: Maricopa County

(2)     Peach and a Jetstar subsidiary have hubs at this airport, the construction of which
was opposed by socialists and conservative farmers during the Sanrizuka Struggle. An
express train connects this airport in Chiba to greater Kanto. For the point, name this
airport that, along with Haneda, serves Tokyo.

ANSWER: Narita International Airport (or Tokyo-Narita; accept New Tokyo International
Airport before "Tokyo" is mentioned; accept NRT; accept RJAA; prompt on general answers
about a "Tokyo Airport")

(3)    Eddy effects and turbulent mixing uniformly distribute the salinity of these features,
which include one in Istanbul called the Golden Horn. Puget Sound and Chesapeake Bay are
examples of these features typified by brackish water. For the point, name these partially
enclosed bodies of water that receive rivers.

ANSWER: Estuary (prompt on "River" or "River Mouth;" prompt on "Inlet;" prompt on
"Gulf;" do not accept or prompt on "Deltas" or "River Deltas")

(4)     This area contains Steinway Tower, the most slender skyscraper in the world, as
well as the world's three tallest, primarily residential buildings. The construction of the
simplistic 432 Park Avenue drew controversy in this area, which is primarily located along a
stretch of 57th Street. For the point, name this area named for its ultra-wealthy Manhattan
residents.

ANSWER: Billionaires Row

(5)     Canaima National Park contains these falls, which descend from the top of Auyán-
tepui [[ow-YAHN TEP-wee]] in the Gran Sabana region. These falls were legendarily first
discovered by Europeans on Walter Raleigh's journey to find El Dorado. For the point,
identify these falls in Venezuela, the world's tallest.

ANSWER: Angel Falls (accept Salto Ángel; accept Kerepakupai Vená; accept Parakupá
Vená)
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                               Round 4


(6)     The Race to the Clouds ascends this mountain, which is accessible from the east by
the Barr Trail. This easternmost of the "Fourteeners" offers views of the Garden of the Gods
and was named for an explorer named Zebulon who never reached this mountain's summit.
For the point, identify this Colorado peak that inspired "America the Beautiful."

ANSWER: Pikes Peak (accept Pikes Peak International Hill Climb; prompt on "Zebulon
Pike")

(7)     This archipelago is bound on the north by the Fair Isle Channel and on the south by
the Pentland Firth. This archipelago's largest island is simply named the Mainland and
contains the town of Stromness and its administrative center Kirkwall. For the point,
identify this Scottish archipelago located south of the Shetlands.

ANSWER: Orkney Islands (or Orkneys)

(8)    This city was the site of a "Dancing Plague" in 1518 and is known for its Ponts
Couverts [[POHNT koo-VEHR]], or "covered bridges," along the Ill River. This largest city of
the Grand Est Region contains the European Council and the European Parliament and is
located in Alsace. For the point, name this French city, separated from Germany by the
Rhine.

ANSWER: Strasbourg

(9)      This island's Akan-Mashu National Park is known for its crystal-clear lake and Ainu
village. This island contains the northern terminus of the Seikan Tunnel, the world's longest
underwater railway tunnel, which passes under the Tsugaru Strait. Sapporo is the capital of,
for the point, what northernmost of the main Japanese islands?

ANSWER: Hokkaido (or Hokkaido Circuit Prefecture)

(10) A town of this name contains America's oldest golf clubhouse and is now a popular
summer destination on Long Island. A city of this was where the Pilgrims transferred to
their initial journey to America on the Mayflower before being forced to turn back to
Plymouth. For the point, identify this English city, the point of departure for the RMS
Titanic?

ANSWER: Southampton

(11) Two pontoon bridges were built across this body of water at Abydos when it was
called the Sea of Helle [[HEH-leh]]. The 1915 Canakkale [[kah-nah-KAH-leh]] was opened in
2022 over this strait, whose ANZAC Cove housed Australian and Kiwi troops during the
Gallipoli Campaign. For the point, name this Turkish strait that connects the Sea of Marmara
to the Aegean Sea.

ANSWER: Dardanelles (accept Hellespont; accept Sea of Helle before mentioned; accept
Canakkale Strait until mentioned; accept Strait of Gallipoli until mentioned)
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                               Round 4


(12) Maurice Vidal Portman abducted six of these people to Port Blair before the death of
two elders. This Scheduled Tribe, which does not practice agriculture, was responsible for
the 2018 death of John Allen Chau, an American Christian missionary. For the point, name
this primitive tribe that lives in isolation on India's Andaman Islands.

ANSWER: Sentinelese (or Sentineli; or North Sentinel Islanders)

(13) Early coins minted in this city by the Boii [[BOY-ee]] Gallic tribe depicted a king
named Biatec. This city contains a statue of a sewer worker rising out of a manhole, and its
Devin Castle overlooks the terminus of the Morava River. The only capital to border two
other countries, this is, for the point, what capital of Slovakia?

ANSWER: Bratislava

(14) This city's Grand Prix is hosted at the Yas Marina circuit, and this city’s Saadiyat
Island contains the only Asian branch of the Louvre Museum. This city has the world's first
graduate-level AI [[A-I]] research institution, which is named after Mohamed bin Zayed. The
Etihad Towers are located in, for the point, what second-largest city in the United Arab
Emirates?

ANSWER: Abu Dhabi

(15) Deported Moriscos who settled in this city's Kasbah of the Udayas formed the
Republic of Salé [[sah-LEH]]. Located on the Bou Regreg River, this city's historic center
contains the Hassan Tower and the Mausoleum of Mohammed V [[THE FIFTH]]. One of the
four imperial cities of its country along with Meknes, Fez and Marrakesh, this is, for the
point, what capital of Morocco?

ANSWER: Rabat (or al-Ribat)

(16) This peak, which is flanked by Mount Foraker and Moose's Tooth, is often
photographed from Reflection Pond. The congressional delegation of Ohio tried to block this
mountain from being named for the Athabaskan Koyukon word for "the high one.” For the
point, identify this Alaskan peak, the highest in North America and the United States.

ANSWER: Denali (accept Mount McKinley)

(17) Ladakh is a union territory in this region that includes the Chinese-claimed Aksai
Chin portion. This region's Karakoram Range includes K2, the world's second-tallest
mountain, and this region's "winter capital" is Jammu. For the point, name this region at the
western edge of the Himalayas, which is disputed between India and Pakistan.

ANSWER: Kashmir (accept Jammu and Kashmir in either order; prompt on "India" or
"Indian Subcontinent")
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                                 Round 4


(18) This mountain was once crowned by the fast-receding Rebmann Glacier, and this
mountain offers a view of nearby Mount Meru. This mountain's highest summit, Uhuru
Peak, is located at its dormant volcanic cone, Kibo. For the point, name this peak in
Tanzania, the tallest mountain in Africa.

ANSWER: Mount Kilimanjaro

(19) This city that is split between the Osage, Creek, and Cherokee reservations is the
largest on the Arkansas River. This city's Greenwood District was home to "Black Wall
Street," which was destroyed in a brutal 1921 race massacre. For the point, name this
second-largest city in Oklahoma.

ANSWER: Tulsa (accept Tulsa Race Massacre; or Tulsa Pogrom; or Tulsa Race Riot)

(20) This country is home to the world's largest population of Bactrian camels. This
country, where Öndörkhaan was renamed to Chinggis City in 2013, also names a stir-fry
style of barbecue. For the point, name this country that is home to the Gobi Desert and many
statues of Genghis Khan.

ANSWER: Mongolia (accept Mongol Uls)

(21) This U.S. state, nicknamed the "Crossroads of America," features a torch surrounded
by a circle of stars on its dark blue flag. The "Fighting Irish" represent Notre Dame
University in this state's city of South Bend. For the point, name this state that borders Lake
Michigan, as well as the states of Kentucky and Illinois.

ANSWER: Indiana

(22) This peninsula's Chicxulub [[chik-choo-LOOB]] crater was formed from the asteroid
that resulted in the extinction of the dinosaurs. This peninsula is home to a number of
resorts, including resorts such as Tulum and Cancún. The Maya city of Tikal is located on,
for the point, what Mexican peninsula that juts into the Caribbean Sea?

ANSWER: Yucatán Peninsula (accept Península de Yucatán)

(23) An amusement park in Rovaniemi claims to straddle this feature and is called Santa
Claus Village. All points north of this feature experience no sunlight during the winter
solstice. For the point, name this line at 66°33′ [[66 degrees 33 minutes]] north, which
passes through Russia, the U.S., and Canada.

ANSWER: Arctic Circle (accept 66°33′ North before mentioned; prompt on "Arctic")
2022 Elementary School National Geography Bee                                              Round 4


(24) This province's town Prince George is nicknamed its "inland capital," and the Hecate
[[HEK-it]] Strait separates it from the Haida Gwaii [[GWY]] archipelago. North America's
largest ski area is this province's Whistler-Blackcomb resort. Containing the source of the
Columbia River, this is, for the point, what province governed from Victoria on Vancouver
Island?

ANSWER: British Columbia (or BC)

(25) This seat of Pulaski County was named by Jean-Baptiste Bénard de la Harpe after
noticing a landmark in the transition between the Mississippi Delta and Ouachita
Mountains. Dwight Eisenhower sent the National Guard to this city's Central High School in
1957, and this city contains Bill Clinton's presidential library. For the point, name this
capital of Arkansas.

ANSWER: Little Rock



Extra Questions
(1)     This mountain's slopes contain the Chapel of the Prophet Elias, the highest Orthodox
Church building in the world. This mountain, which gave its name to the highest peak of
Cyprus, rises above the Theramic Gulf. Also lending its name to a volcano on Mars, this is,
for the point, what highest mountain of Greece, the legendary home of Zeus and the gods?

ANSWER: Mount Olympus

(2)    This largest city on Guanabara bay is home to Copacabana Beach. This city hosts the
world's largest Carnaval celebration, and this city is overlooked by Corcovado Mountain,
which is home to the Christ the Redeemer statue. For the point, name this second-most
populous city in Brazil after Sao Paulo.

ANSWER: Rio de Janeiro
