           2019 International Geography Bee
         US Middle School & Elementary School
               National Championships
                                       FINALS
1. This country’s capital holds the Friday Mosque, which, like numerous mosques in this
country, is comprised primarily of coral. In 2009, this country’s government pledged to become
carbon-neutral by 2019, given the dangers posed by rising sea levels to this country with the
lowest average elevation. Ibrahim Mohamed Solih is the president of, for the point, which Indian
Ocean country, that may be found south of India and west of Sri Lanka?
ANSWER: Republic of Maldives

2. A memorial to musician Art Tatum in a city with this name is a 26-foot-tall column of piano
keys. Another city with this name in La Mancha contains the Museo de la Tortura, displaying
dangerous devices like the Chair of Judas. A city with this name on the Maumee River was the
site of non-lethal conflict egged on by Ohioan Robert Lucas and Michigander Stevens T. Mason.
El Greco painted a “View of,” for the point, what city in central Spain that also names a city in
northwestern Ohio?
ANSWER: Toledo

3. A seaside municipality with this name is the second largest city in the province of Santa Elena,
which was created from the western portion of the Guayas Province in 2007. A valley with this
name is where the unhappy Kathy Ames shoots her husband Adam Trask after the birth of her
children in the book East of Eden. For the point, give this name of a California city where John
Steinbeck was born, and whose name comes from the Spanish word for “Salt Marsh.”
ANSWER: Salinas [Accept Salinas Valley]
4. A major city on this island is home to the Trojaborg rock maze, which was built as punishment
for the daughter of a merchant who dealt with pirates that preyed on Hanseatic ships. Northeast
of this island is the smaller Fårö Island, where Ingmar Bergman set films like Through a Glass
Darkly and Persona. For the point, name this Baltic island that speaks a dialect called Gutnish
owned by Sweden with its largest city at Visby.
ANSWER: Gotland [Accept Gothland]

5. A World War II era song by Vera Lynn says “There’ll Be Bluebirds Over” this feature. Due to
frosty conditions, a portion of this feature collapsed into the ocean in an area known as Crab
Bay. Matthew Arnold describes this feature as “Glimmering and vast, out in the tranquil bay” in
a 19th century poem. A part of the larger North Down formation, one can see the French
coastline from this feature on a clear day. For the point, name this chalk feature in the region of
Kent, England.
ANSWER: The White Cliffs of Dover

6. The Toniná site in this state’s Ocosingo Valley has a stela that marks the exact date used by
scholars to end a certain people’s “Classic period.” A movement here once led by
Subcomandante Marcos began due to its members being against both the signing of NAFTA and
the corporatism of the government of Carlos Salinas de Gortari. That group is known as the
Zapatistas. For the point, name this state that borders Oaxaca and Tabasco and the Guatemalan
department of Peten, located in southern Mexico.
ANSWER: Chiapas

7. Explorer Friedrich Benjamin Graf von Lütke named a small archipelago in this chain “The Rat
Islands” due to rats accidently being introduced there. Kiska was an island in this archipelago
occupied by the Japanese in the 1940’s. This island chain was once named for the Czarina
Catherine I, wife of Peter the Great. The primary population center of this island chain is a
settlement called Unalaska, found on a namesake island near Amaknak Island. For the point,
name this island chain on both sides of the International Date Line in the US state of Alaska.
ANSWER: Aleutian Islands [Accept Aleut Islands; Accept Catherine Islands before
mentioned]

8. Wihwa Island, which can be found in this river, was historically where one general turned
emperor decided to return to Kaesong, eventually establishing the Yi Dynasty. This Manchu
word for “the boundary between two nations” is near the Juche holy site Mt. Paektu. For the
point, name this river that partially forms the border of North Korea and China.
ANSWER: Yalu River [Accept Amrok River]
9. A port in southwest Newfoundland is named for these people whose red, white, and green flag
can also be found on the coat of arms of St. Pierre and Miquelon. These people speak an ergative
language that is related to the extinct Aquitanian language. These people’s language is the sole
surviving endemic non-Indo European language of Western Europe. These people’s namesake
region is the site of a city with a Frank Gehry designed museum in Bilbao. For the point, name
these people who formed the ETA terrorist organization, seeking independence in the Western
Pyrenees near the border of Spain and France.
ANSWER: Basque [Accept euskaldunak and Vascos]

10. A Christopher Columbus underling named Alonso de Ojeda discovered these islands, calling
them the “Isles of Giants.” creole language Papiamento developed in this island group, and the
only one of these islands still directly administered by a European power is Bonaire. For the
point, name these three islands of the Western Antilles, which are Dutch colonies with an
alphabetical nickname.
ANSWER: ABC Islands [Accept Aruba, Bonaire, and Curacao and Accept Netherlands
Antilles but do not just accept only one or two of them. Prompt on Lesser Antilles, prompt on
Dutch West Indies]

11. One facility used for this sport was the site of the Vel d’Hiv (pr. vel-DEEV) roundup of
Parisian Jews in 1942. A major 2018 event in this sport controversially began in Jerusalem
before making its way to Italy. Sett paving created problems on the ninth stage of the 2018
iteration of this sport's most notable race, which began in Arras. This sport's most notable event
climbs the Massif Central and ends at the Arc de Triomphe. For the point, name this sport whose
athletes compete in velodromes and at the Tour de France.
ANSWER: bicycling (accept bike riding or biking)

12. A port along this sea is home to 18th century New Dvina Fortress and the Sutyagin House.
Its namesake “throat,” known natively as “Gorlo,” is a strait that separates it from the Mezen
Coast. Much of the southern portion of the Kola peninsula borders this sea, which is connected to
the Baltic via its namesake canal. For the point, name this sea in Northwestern Russia named for
a color.
ANSWER: White Sea [Accept Dvina Sea before mentioned]

13. This country is the sole home of the Jellyfish Tree, as well as the coco de mer, whose
coconuts can weigh up to 65 pounds. This country can be roughly divided into the Outer Islands,
which hold less than 1% of the country’s population, and the Inner Islands, which include the
granite-based Bird Island, Silhouette Island, and Mahé Island, the country’s largest. Victoria is
the capital of, for the point, which archipelagic country off the East African coast whose name
may be mistaken for something commonly found upon beaches?
ANSWER: Republic of Seychelles [accept Repiblik Sesel]
14. One city with this name in the Midlands region is home to the Brummie dialect. Another city
with this name is home to Rickwood Field which was originally used for this city’s Negro
League team, the Black Barons, and is the oldest baseball field still in use in the USA. That city
is a steel-producing center in the American South and was named the other aforementioned city
with this name which is the second largest by population in England. For the point, name this
city in Central Alabama, from whose jail Martin Luther King once penned a letter, and the
largest by population in that state.
ANSWER: Birmingham

15. Point names an island on a lake in the middle of the Taal Volcano in this country. General
Paulino Santos names a coastal city in this country whose city of Tacloban was devastated by
Typhoon Haiyan in 2013. This nation’s official capital was originally at Quezon City, but that
was absorbed by another city on Luzon. For the point, name this former Spanish colony ceded to
the US that was site of the Battle of Manila Bay.
ANSWER: Republic of the Philippines

16. Some of this country’s natives on the island of Tanna believe that Prince Phillip, the husband
of Queen Elizabeth of England, is a divine being while many more participate in a famed cargo
cult centered on a nameless American soldier, the “John Frum” movement. The creole language
Bislama is spoken by many people within this country, which was once known as the New
Hebrides and is located west of Fiji. For the point, name this Melanesian country, whose largest
island is Espiritu Santo, and whose capital is Port Vila.
ANSWER: Republic of Vanuatu

17. Sultan and astronomer Ulugh Beg built an observatory in this city, which is also home to the
Bibi-Khanym Mosque. A mausoleum with a corrugated blue dome in this city holds the
remnants of a conqueror who took this city as his lavish capital; that tomb is known as the Gur-e
Amir. Since being Tamerlane’s capital, it has been replaced by Tashkent as the modern-day
capital of its country. For the point, name this historical city in east-central Uzbekistan.
ANSWER: Samarkand [accept Samarqand]

18. Historical portions of this city, Englishtown and Irishtown, were connected by Baal’s Bridge.
This city on the River Shannon has a tourist site called King’s Island, the site of a 13th-century
Norman castle named for John I of England. This city in the province of Munster forms a
corridor along with the cities of Galway and Cork. For the point, name this Irish city that also
lends its name to a five line poem with an A-A-B-B-A rhyme scheme.
ANSWER: Limerick
19. The area surrounding this body of water was called the Maeotian Sea by the Greeks, named
for a generic grouping of people including the Ixomates people. This sea is the shallowest in the
world, with an average depth of 23 feet. Both the Don and Kuban rivers empty into this body,
and it is connected to a larger body to the south by the Strait of Kerch. For the point, name this
body of water that borders the Eastern Crimean peninsula and is connected to the Black Sea.
ANSWER: Sea of Azov

20. This city was probably named for James Polk’s Vice President, though it may actually be
named after that man’s brothers. This city’s NBA team was sold by Ross Perot to Mark Cuban,
and won one NBA title with the recently retired Dirk Nowitzki. This ninth largest city in the US
by population is only the third largest in its state. In this city, near Dealey Plaza, a temporary
employee allegedly broke into the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Depository to target a
US President’s motorcade. For the point, name this US city that was the site of the Kennedy
assassination in 1963.
ANSWER: Dallas

21. These people’s goatskin tents are often segregated by gender into the mekaad rabiaa and
meherrem. The Ottoman Land Law of the 19th century gave legal grounds to displace these
people. Social Anthropologist Dawn Chatty’s thesis From Camel to Truck concerns this group’s
adaptation to modernity. The Prawer Plan sought to move a subset of these people in the Negev
from unrecognized areas in Israel to towns. For the point, name these nomadic people whose
name means “Desert Dweller” in Arabic.
ANSWER: Bedouin People

22. This national park was once named for the explorer who founded the first permanent French
settlement in Canada, Pierre Dugua, Sieur de Mons. The Wabanaki Confederacy host a large
Native American festival in the town of Bar Harbor near this park. A traveler at this park’s
Cadillac Mountain can be the first to watch the sunrise in the continental US between October to
March due to its eastern location. For the point, name this national park that shares its name with
a French colony in Canada, located in coastal Maine.
ANSWER: Acadia National Park

23. Protesters came to this site to protest the coercion and the economic destitution of Ireland
along with the need for the release of MP William O’Brien, leading to an 1887 event here called
Bloody Sunday. This site in Westminster has a monument that depicts scenes of the Battle of
Cape St. Vincent and the Battle of the Nile during the Napoleonic Wars. For the point, name this
square named after a British naval victory with a column honoring Horatio Nelson.
ANSWER: Trafalgar Square
24. Thomas Lee developed a chair named for this mountain range in Westport. People who have
climbed a set of mountains in this range over 4000 feet tall are known as 46ers. Housing built for
the 1980 Winter Olympics in this mountain range was later turned into a prison. The village of
Saranac Lake is known as unofficial “The Capital of” this range and is a few miles west of Lake
Placid. For the point, name this mountain range west of Lake Champlain in Upstate New York.
ANSWER: Adirondack Mountains

25. This city’s international airport is named for the legendary hero Manas, who in his namesake
epic defeats his Oirat nemesis Joloy. This city was once called Frunze, after an early associate of
Vladimir Lenin in the 1917 Revolution. The Tulip Revolution held in this city’s Ala-too square
led to the downfall of the first post-Soviet President Askar Akayev. For the point, name this
capital of Kyrgyzstan.
ANSWER: Bishkek [Accept Pishbek; Accept Frunze before mentioned]

26. To this day, descendants of a group called the Nova Scotian settlers pray below this city’s
symbol of freedom, the Cotton Tree. John Clarkson is partially responsible for helping navigate
the first settlers to this city in the 1790s, mostly people from British colonies like Canada and the
British Caribbean who were freed slaves. For the point, give the name of this city found 300
miles northwest of Monrovia, the capital of Sierra Leone.
ANSWER: Freetown

27. The only Baha’i House of Worship in North America is in this county’s village of Wilmette.
Governor Adlai E Stevenson had to call up the State Guard to quell the Cicero riots in 1951 in
this county’s namesake township. The Jane Addams Memorial Tollway runs through much of
what is called “The Golden Corridor,” which includes places of high commercial productivity
like Rosemont. For the point, name this county where you are right now that includes the City of
Chicago.
ANSWER: Cook County

28. A cryptid named for this body of water likely came about when local people adopted the
myth of the Urartu people. Within this body of water is the island of Aghtamar, where one can
find the Armenian Cathedral of the Holy Cross built by Gagik I Artsruni. Just north of this lake,
Romanus Diogenes suffered a catastrophic loss to the Seljuks at Battle of Manzikert. For the
point, name this lake in its namesake region of eastern Turkey.
ANSWER: Lake Van [Accept Gola Wanê]
29. This building was eventually bought by the Fuller Company, which was run by the namesake
“Father of Skyscrapers.” This building was called a “stingy piece of pie” by the New York
Tribune in a critique of the building's opening. For the point, name this triangular New York City
building at the intersection of Broadway and Fifth Avenue, named for its resemblance to a tool to
get wrinkles out of clothing.
ANSWER: Flatiron Building [Accept Fuller Building before mentioned]

30. President Yahya Jammeh renamed an island in this river from St. Andrew’s Island to Kunta
Kinteh island, in honor of the protagonist of Roots by Alex Haley. A capital on the mouth on this
river was once known as Bathurst by the British, and its Arch 22 was designed by a Senegalese
architect to commemorate a bloodless coup in that nation. For the point, name this West African
river that also names a nation with capital at Banjul.
ANSWER: Gambia River [Accept Gambra]


Extra
31. James Cook’s first voyage sought to observe Venus from a specific part of the world, leading
him to set up an observatory on this island near Matavai Bay. This island’s people pose in
paintings such as Are you Jealous? and Spirit of the Dead Watching by Paul Gauguin. This
largest of French Polynesia’s Windward Islands was once known as Otaheite, which translates to
“Obsolete.” For the point, name this island in the South Pacific whose largest city is Papeete.
ANSWER: Tahiti

32. A specific type of upside-down catfish can be found in this river’s Malebo Pool, a river
widening that was once named for a man who traversed this river after travelling down the
Lualaba. Two capital cities that lie on this river are connected by the busiest international ferry in
Africa; one of those cities was once known as Leopoldville. Formerly called the Zaire River, for
the point, name this second-longest river in Africa after the Nile.
ANSWER: Congo River [accept Nzadi Kongo, Fleuve Congo, Stroom Congo, rio Congo; accept
Zaire River before mentioned]

33. A city with this name is the site of the Japanese-style Dana-Thomas House by Frank Lloyd
Wright. A city with this name has both the Dr. Seuss National Memorial Sculpture Garden, with
statues of character like the Lorax and Horton, as well as the Basketball Hall of Fame, as
Canadian James Naismith invented the game here. A state capital with this name is the site of the
the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum. For the point, give this name of both a
Massachusetts city and the capital of Illinois.
ANSWER: Springfield
34. This city boasts its country’s official presidential residence, which since an 1875 fire, has
been known as the “Burnt Palace,” or Palacio Quemado. This city sits directly next to Mount
Illimani in the Cordillera Real range, which contributes to its status as the world’s highest
national capital. Many Aymara people reside in this city, which serves as one capital of its
country, along with one named for Antonio Jose de Sucre. For the point, name this de facto
capital of Bolivia.
ANSWER: La Paz [accept Nuestra Señora de La Paz; accept Chuqi Yapu; accept Chuquiago]

35. This city’s name may come from the name of the local cacique, or a Caribbean native chief,
or for the Kalina phrase for “Place where the serpents abound.” Dictator Marcos Pérez Jiménez
fulfilled his promise to connect two portions of this city by building the General Rafael Urdaneta
Bridge over the Tablazo Strait. For the point, name this second-largest Venezuelan city and
center of the oil industry that also names a so-called “Lake,” that is actually an inlet of the
Caribbean Sea.
ANSWER: Maracaibo
