US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                       Finals



                                                Finals
Finals Phase 1

(1) In this state, the Weymouth Fore River flows into the sea between Hingham and Quincy Bays. A
body of water on this state’s coastline extends north to Cape Ann, home to the fishing city of Gloucester
[glaw-ster]. Also on this state’s coastline is the Presidential Library of John F. Kennedy, just south of a
harbor that was polluted in 1773 by unruly colonists wearing Native American costumes. For the point,
name this New England state whose coastline includes Boston Harbor.
ANSWER: Massachusetts

(2) In this region, the Sesriem gate allows access to a national park. Brown fur seals form a breeding
colony along this region’s Cape Cross. An annual sailing event begins in this desert’s city of Ludëritz.
John Henry Marsh’s book on a shipwreck on the Dunedin Star inspired the name of a portion of this
desert called the Skeleton Coast. The Herero people live north of this desert, which is west of the Kalahari
Desert. For the point, name this desert of southwest Africa.
ANSWER: Namib Desert

(3) The “pharaoist” [pharaoh-ist] hip hop group IAM [I am] was formed in this city. In 2004, the CMA
CGM Tower was built in this city. The fish stew bouillabaisse originated in this city, which is home to the
prison fortress of Chateau d’If. Pied-noirs rushed to this city in 1962, and a large Corsican community
lives in this city, which has historically been its country’s main Mediterranean port. Originally called
Massalia by the Romans, for the point, name this second most populous city in France.
ANSWER: Marseilles (accept Marselha)

(4) The central deity of this event is married to a god who oversees a realm that contains crashing
mountains and winds containing knives. Toys are brought for the “little angels” during this event. A
dough-based drink called atol is sometimes drunk during this holiday, during which a prominent parade is
held in the city of Mérida. During this holiday, merchants at the Alfeñique fair in Toluca sell sugar skulls.
For the point, name this three-day Mexican holiday at the end of October and start of November that
honors the deceased.
ANSWER: Day of the Dead (or Dia de Muertos or Dia de los Muertos)

(5) The largest city in this region hosts the largest fish market in the world. A disaster named for
this region was caused along the boundary of the Philippine Sea Plate; Frank Lloyd Wright’s Imperial
Hotel withstood that 1923 earthquake. This region includes parts of seven prefectures and is home to its
country’s largest plain. Yokohama can be found on the island of Honshu in, for the point, what region of
Japan containing Tokyo?
ANSWER: Kanto region (prompt on Japan; prompt on Honshu; anti-prompt on Tokyo by asking “I need
a larger geographical region than that”)




                                                   Page 1
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                   Finals


(6) A traditional form of this cuisine known as khorkhog often uses lamb or goat, cooked with a set of
large rocks. A chain founded in Missoula, Montana called HuHot specializes in this type of cuisine, as
does BD’s, which claims that this cuisine originated from a style of meal-preparation involving warriors
cooking on their shields. This cuisine was invented in Taiwan, rather than the namesake country. Meat
and vegetables are stir fried on a griddle in, For the point, what type of cuisine that one can eat at
Genghis Grill?
ANSWER: Mongolian barbecue (or Mongolian stir-fry; prompt on stir-fry before it is read; prompt
on partial answers; prompt on descriptive answers relating to “fake Mongolian food” after “chain” is read,
with the player then needing to provide something like “fake Mongolian barbecue”)

(7) John Palmer Parker started a namesake ranch on this mountain after being awarded land for helping
a king clear a region of wild bulls. Queen Emma once bathed in a lake on this peak when competing for a
royal position. A pair of twin telescopes on this peak are a part of the Keck Observatory. When measured
from its base below sea level, this mountain is over 10,000 meters tall and over 100 meters taller than its
neighbor, Mauna Loa. For the point, name this volcano on Hawaii’s Big Island.
ANSWER: Mauna Kea

(8) Cities on the coast of this country include Qasr Ahmad near Misrata, as well as the ancient ruins
of Leptis Magna. Italy, Nazi Germany, the UK, and the US have occupied Wheelus Air Base near
this country’s capital. Another coastal city, Sirte [surt], was the birthplace of a former dictator, while
Christopher Stevens was killed in another city on its Mediterranean coast in the US Embassy in 2012. For
the point, name this North African country whose cities include Tripoli and Benghazi.
ANSWER: Libya

(9) This city is connected to Cruz Loma by a gondola lift called “Teleferiqo.” This city is divided into
32 cabildos and is located in the basin of the Guayllabamba River. Carondelet Palace, the residence of
its country’s head of state, is in this city, which has views of Cotopaxi and lies on the stratovolcano
Pinchincha. This city is the capital of a country whose largest city is Guayaquil. The equator passes
roughly a mile north of, For the point, what capital city of Ecuador?
ANSWER: Quito

(10) Art Gilkey and Mario Puchoz died on this mountain within a year of each other in the 1950s; they
now name a memorial at this mountain’s base camp. A resemblance to the Alps led a feature of this
mountain near the Baltoro Glacier to be named Concordia. Over three-fourths of climbers of this mountain
use its southeastern Abruzzi Spur. This peak was once named for surveror Henry Godwin-Austen, and it
is the tallest in the Karakoram Range. For the point, name this second-tallest mountain on Earth.
ANSWER: K2 (accept Mount Godwen-Austen before read)




                                                  Page 2
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                     Finals


(11) The Svislach River flows through the capital of this country, whose six regions include one centered
at Gomel. Upon independence, this country’s flag consisted of a red stripe against a white field; that was
later changed to a red, white, and green flag. This country is the only one in Europe to currently have
the death penalty legalized. The city of Litovsk was twinned with this nation’s city of Brest in a World
War I treaty in which Russia exited the war. For the point, name this landlocked nation led by Aleksandr
Lukashenko in Eastern Europe with capital at Minsk.
ANSWER: Belarus

(12) A museum in this city containing Vincent van Gogh’s Irises is connected to a parking garage by a
hovertrain line; that museum was designed by Richard Meier. The Ronald Reagan Medical Center was
built on a university campus in this city’s neighborhood of Westwood. The Wilshire Grand Center is
the tallest building in this city, where Frank Gehry designed a concert hall named after Walt Disney.
The Getty Center is in, For the point, what city that has a surprisingly small number of skyscrapers,
horrendous traffic along “the 5,” and the largest population of any city in California?
ANSWER: Los Angeles (accept LA)

(13) Description acceptable. At this location, Richard Branson was photographed in Union Jack-themed
clothing planting a British flag. Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie allegedly purchased this location’s “Ethiopia”
landmass. This location, developed by the Nakheel group, is said to have sold two-thirds of its land, but
the 2008 recession slowed development. This region is located next to similar features in the shape of a
palm tree. For the point, name this set of manmade sandy constructions off the coast of Dubai, built in
the shape of a map.
ANSWER: The World Islands (accept Juzur al-Alam; accept descriptions of the islands in the
shape of countries off the coast of Dubai and/or the United Arab Emirates; prompt on descriptions of
manmade islands off the coast of Dubai/UAE)

(14) Much of this city’s Analco district was damaged after a series of sewer explosions in 1992. The
Mayahuel is awarded at the annual Film Festival held in this city, which has a name meaning “valley of
stones.” The Hospicio Cabaña in this city contains several works by José Clemente Orozco. This is the
capital city of the state containing the beach town of Puerto Vallarta. The capital of Jalisco is, for the
point, what second most populous city of Mexico?
ANSWER: Guadalajara

(15) A valley leading to the entrance into this city is known as the Gateway to the Siq. This city largely
contributes to the tourist economy of the nearby Wadi Musa. A John Burgon poem describes this city as
“a rose-red city half as old as time,” even though he’d never been there. This city was a capital for the
Nabataeans, and the Tomb of Aaron is thought to be located in this city, which is dominated by rock-cut
architecture. For the point, name this archaeological site in Jordan.
ANSWER: Petra




                                                   Page 3
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                  Finals


(16) This company named the world’s first all-steel-frame skyscraper, which was built on Adams Street
in Chicago in 1889 and demolished in 1911. This company, which is now headquartered in Skokie, Illinois,
sold a division of itself to the Canadian Cartographics Corporation in 2008. The Robinson map projection
was commissioned by this company, whose best known product places a shield on features like Route 66.
The Goode’s World Atlas is published by, For the point, what American mapping company known for its
road atlases?
ANSWER: Rand McNally

(17) Samuel Valko once rescued a royal couple from what is now this nation’s Doskinská Ice Cave. A
Robin Hood-like figure popular in this nation’s folklore is Juraj Jánosı́k. This country’s mountain of
Krivan is featured on its 1 euro coin. The Tatras run through this country’s mountainous Presov region.
This country’s capital, which was once known as Pressburg, is the second national capital along the course
of the Danube. For the point, name this neighbor of the Czech Republic whose capital is Bratislava.
ANSWER: Slovakia (do not accept or prompt Czechoslovakia)

(18) Jean Rouch used his footage travelling the whole length of this river in his earliest documentaries.
A northern tributary of this river flows through the Fouta Djallon. Rock salt is commonly sold at this
river’s port city of Mopti. Snake infestations ran rampant after the 2013 flooding of the Benue, which is
the main tributary of this river which flows into the Gulf of Guinea. Bamako lies on, For the point, what
river that is the namesake of two West African countries?
ANSWER: Niger River

(19) This island chain’s Unimak island is surrounded by waters protected as Steller sea lion habitats.
The westernmost island in this island chain was the site of three weeks of combat in 1943 which ended in
a banzai charge. Early, an amphibious landing took place in this island chain on Kiska in 1942. Nuclear
testing was performed on Amchitka in the Rat Islands section of this island chain. The International Date
Line divides the Commander Islands from this island chain, which lies south of the Bering Sea. For the
point, name this island chain that extends southwest from the largest US state.
ANSWER: Aleutian Islands

(20) In the delta of the Harbor River off the shore of this state, the otherwise-uninhabitated Morgan
Island is home to a population of Rhesus monkeys used for medical testing. Lake Moultrie is just northwest
of Francis Marion National Forest in this state. Palmetto Bluff and Hilton Head Island are near this
state’s southern border along the Savannah River. Myrtle Beach is a tourist destination on the coast of,
For the point, what state where Fort Sumter is found in Charleston Harbor on the Atlantic coast?
ANSWER: South Carolina

(21) The popularity of bird feeding around a lake in this city led that lake to be called “the biggest
breadsoup in the world.” GusGus is a band that originated in this city, where it regularly performed in
the Perlan building. Found on the southern end of Faxa Bay, a major Lutheran church in this city is
the Hallgrimskirkja [hall-grims-keerk-yah]. Much of this Nordic city runs on geothermal heating. For the
point, name this northernmost national capital on Earth, the capital of Iceland.
ANSWER: Reykjavik


                                                 Page 4
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                    Finals


(22) The Dragon’s Mouths connect the Gulf of Paria to this body of water, which Baranquilla lies along.
Shoal Bay is one of the most popular beaches along this sea, which contains the ABC Islands, where
Papiamento is spoken as a Dutch-derived creole. Reggae music took off in a country along this sea, whose
various islands became occupied by European sugar plantation owners. The Greater and Lesser Antilles
islands bound, For the point, what sea containing Jamaica, Aruba, and the eastern coastline of Central
America?
ANSWER: Caribbean Sea

(23) Nitrate runoff has negatively impacted a tributary of this river known as the Portneuf. The Palouse
Hills are located north of this river, which is bordered by Walla Walla County. This is the second-longest
river of the three rivers that meet in the Tri-Cities. Shoshone Falls is the northernmost point for salmon
migration along this river. The longest tributary of the Columbia River is, for the point, what river of the
Pacific Northwest?
ANSWER: Snake River

(24) The Angsi Glacier is the source of this river, which flows through a protected area known
for its rhinoceroses, Kaziranga National Park. In Sikkim, this river’s basin is home to the mountain
Kanchenjunga. This river’s upper portion is known as the Yarlung Tsangpo in Tibet. This river joins the
Padma, or the Bengali name for the Ganges, in Bangladesh. For the point, name this river that flows
through eastern India and China.
ANSWER: Brahmaputra River (accept Yarlung Tsangpo before mentioned)

(25) A march considered to be this archipelago’s national anthem refers to its islands as the “Em’ralds
of the sea.” A large population of leatherback turtles inspired the name of this archipelago’s Trunk Bay.
The wife of Christian V of Denmark, Charlotte Amalie, names the capital city of this island chain. St.
Thomas and St. Croix are part of, For the point, what Caribbean island chain located east of Puerto Rico
and west of a similarly named British counterpart?
ANSWER: United States Virgin Islands (prompt on Virgin Islands; do not accept British Virgin Islands)

(26) This city is served by an airport in its Ferihegy neighborhood that was renamed for a composer in
2011. Tourists to this capital city often take a 2 hour bus ride to visit the largest thermal lake in the
world, Lake Héviz. This city’s Andrássy Avenue contains a museum dedicated to Zoltan Kodály [koh-die].
The Szechenyi [say-chen-ee] chain bridge connected two cities in 1849, whose names were then combined
to give that of this city. Food in this capital city is often spiced with paprika. For the point, name this
capital city of Hungary.
ANSWER: Budapest

(27) The capital of this province has much of its water supply provided by Winter River. Two battles
in the 1740s were fought near this province’s Port-la-Joye. This province is at the northern end of the
Confederation Bridge, which crosses the Northumberland Strait to this province’s south. This was the
northernmost province from which the Acadians were expelled in the eighteenth century. Charlottetown
is the capital of, For the point, what maritime Canadian province north of New Brunswick?
ANSWER: Prince Edward Island


                                                  Page 5
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                     Finals


(28) A series of 2003 bushfires started by lightning affected this state’s highest point of Mount Bogong.
This state’s city of Ballarat grew rapidly in the 1850s during a gold rush. Geelong is located in this state,
whose largest city was established on the Yarra River. The Bass Strait separates this state from an island
formerly called Van Diemen’s Land. The 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne were held in, For the
point, what southeast Australian state named after a queen of England?
ANSWER: Victoria

(29) The underground, heaven, and the present are represented by the title features in this location’s
Room of the Three Windows. Ashlar masonry was central to the construction of this place, which is found
in the Urubamba Valley. It contains a sacred stone called the Inti Watana and is now thought to have
been built for the emperor Pachacuti. For the point, name this site roughly 50 miles from Cuzco that was
built by the Inca in Peru and “discovered” in the 20th century by Hiram Bingham.
ANSWER: Machu Picchu

(30) This country’s capital city is home to Monsanto Forest Park in the Monsanto Hills. The Tower of
Belém in this country is an example of its Manueline architecture. The estufagem aging process is unique
to wines produced in this nation’s Madeira region. The Tagus River flows through this nation, whose
capital was devastated by a 1755 earthquake. For the point, name this Iberian country centered at Lisbon.
ANSWER: Portugal

Finals Phase 2

(31) Mines from 22 different nations have been found in this country’s town of Cuito Cuanavale. The
Ovambo ethnicity dominates this nation’s Cunene province. At around 16 degrees south, the Benguela
joins this country’s namesake current. The exclave of Cabinda owned by this country, where Bantu
languages are less frequently spoken than its national language of Portuguese. A 26 year long civil war
was fought in, For the point, what African nation with capital at Luanda?
ANSWER: Angola

(32) The Khasa Hills are a dry region of this city. A 2014 terrorist attack on this city’s primary airport
was conducted by the TTP. Port Qasim is located in this city, nicknamed the “City of Lights,” which is
the capital of the province of Sindh and is home to its country’s largest port. This city has over 4 million
more inhabitants than its country’s second most populous city, Lahore. Jinnah International Airport is in,
for the point, what city in Pakistan?
ANSWER: Karachi

(33) In 2010, this country became the first to ban trawling of the seafloor. Baking Pot and Caracol are
among the archaeological ruins in this country’s Cayo district, which contains its second largest city of
San Ignacio. A famous scuba diving spot in this country is the Great Blue Hole. English is the official
language of, For the point, what Central American country, formerly called British Honduras, that borders
Guatemala and Mexico and has capital Belmopan?
ANSWER: Belize



                                                   Page 6
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                    Finals


(34) The “clean tent rite” is practiced by members of this region’s Nganasan people. During the
Permian-Triassic boundary, a continual volcanic event led to the creation of the Putorana Palteau. An
author of the Village Prose movement wrote about his life in this region, including in one city along its
Angara River. The Tunguska event leveled a forest in this region, where shamanism is common and where
many gulags were established. For the point, name this region east of the Ural Mountains, a cold and
sparse region of Russia.
ANSWER: Siberia

(35) Johannes Jeep [YAPE] once served as the organist for this city’s Cathedral of St. Bartholomew.
The Dominsel was an elevated structure built in this city’s Altstadt district. This city lies on the Main
River, a major tributary of the Rhine. Found in the state of Hesse, this city is home to the headquarters
of Deutsche Bank and many other financial companies. For the point, name this large German city that
names a type of pork sausage that bears resemblance to hot dogs.
ANSWER: Frankfurt am Main

(36) Cyclone Pam was the worst natural disaster to affect this nation, whose song “Yumi, Yumi, Yumi” is
its national anthem. This country’s main language is an English creole known as Bislama. Presbyterianism
is the largest Christian denomination of this country, which originally known as the New Hebrides.
Espiritu Santo is found in this island country in Melanesia to the west of Fiji. For the point, name this
South Pacific nation with capital at Port Vila,
ANSWER: Republic of Vanuatu

(37) One of the most difficult portions of this river to navigate is the Sans Sault [sahn sault] Rapids. The
North Nahanni is a tributary of this river, which the Franklin Mountains run along. The Liard River flows
into this river near the village of Fort Simpson. This river was originally known as Disappointment River,
until it was named for an explorer who realized that it emptied into the Beaufort Sea and did not lead to
the Pacific Ocean. For the point, name this longest river in Canada.
ANSWER: Mackenzie River

(38) The first naval battle of World War I took place in this body of water. Bus lines service commuters
traveling between this lake’s Monkey Bay and the city of Blantyre. The Shire River flows out of this
lake, known for its diversity of cichlids [sick-lids]and other fish. Upon reaching this body of water,
David Livingstone gave it the name Lake Nyasa. For the point, name this rift lake that Tanzania and
Mozambique share with its namesake country.
ANSWER: Lake Malawi (accept Lake Nyasa before mentioned)

(39) One of these institutions south of Milwaukee is named for General Billy Mitchell. Another of these
places near St. Louis was developed by, and is named for, Olympic golfer Albert Lambert. Another of
these places was once named Orchard Field and was built to mostly replace another one named for the
Battle of Midway on the south side of Chicago. For the point, name these transportation facilities that
use three-letter ID codes, such as ORD for Chicago O’Hare.
ANSWER: airports



                                                  Page 7
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                  Finals


(40) Thousands of visitors flock to the haunted houses of this state’s industrial city of West Bottoms.
Manufacturers like Cessna and Beechcraft inspired this state’s largest city to be nicknamed the “Air
Capital of the World.” Fewer than 7,000 people live in this state’s city of Abilene, but it is home to the
Dwight Eisenhower Presidential Library. For the point, name this plains state, home to cities like Wichita
and Topeka.
ANSWER: Kansas

(41) One of the four great uncials is housed in this peninsula’s Saint Catherine’s Monastery. In 2010, a
body of water along this peninsula had dead sheep dumped into it, an act believed to have contributed
to a series of shark attacks near Sharm El Sheikh. This peninsula, which was once part of the Roman
province Arabia Petraea, is found between the Gulfs of Aqaba and Suez. For the point, name this Egyptian
peninsula.
ANSWER: Sinai Peninsula

(42) This man spent seven months in prison after being falsely accused of engaging in a heretical
correspondence with Franciscans and was once hired by Duke René to survey Lorraine. This man
developed a system based on rhumb lines, or lines of constant course; that system enlarged Greenland
and diminished Africa in an attempt to be more helpful for maritime navigation. For the point, name this
16th century Flemish cartographer known for developing a widely used map projection.
ANSWER: Gerardus Mercator

(43) One of this nation’s most famous songs is the march “La cumparsita,” which was popularized as a
tango in the early 20th century. This nation’s city of Paysandu is home to a plateau with a bronze bust
of its military hero, José Artigas. This nation won the 1930 and 1938 World Cups, having hosted in 1938.
The Rio Negro is a tributary of this country’s namesake river, which helps form the Rio de la Plata.
For the point, name this small South American country east of Argentina whose Legislative Palace is in
Montevideo.
ANSWER: Oriental Republic of Uruguay

(44) Henry Schoolcraft’s search for this location concluded in 1832, ignoring the existence of Nicollet
Creek. Schoolcraft coined a portmanteau from the Latin for “truth” and “head” to celebrate the discovery
of this location, west of what is now Paul Bunyan State Forest. For the point, name this geographic
feature, commonly considered to be Lake Itasca in Minnesota, that begins a 2,300-mile-long waterway
that eventually ends in the Gulf of Mexico.
ANSWER: source of the Mississippi River (accept Lake Itasca before it is said)

(45) During the 2002 flooding of this river, Raphael’s Sistine Madonna was nearly damaged in the Semper
Gallery. The preponderance of mills along one tributary of this river led that tributary to be named the
Mulde. Another tributary of this river, the Vltava, flows through the Bohemian forest and is the main
river of the Czech Republic. Dresden is on, and Hamburg is known as the “Florence of,” For the point,
what river that flows through Saxony before emptying into the North Sea?
ANSWER: Elbe River



                                                 Page 8
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                  Finals


(46) One president of this country opened a ski resort in its Kopet Dag mountains. Schools in this country
made the Ruhnama required reading. An economically central feature to this country is the Galkynysh
Gas Field. One of the largest irrigation canals on Earth can be found in this country’s Karakum Desert.
Russians make up 16 percent of the population of this country, which borders the southeast coast of
the Caspian Sea. For the point, name this Central Asia country, a former Soviet republic with capital
Ashgabat.
ANSWER: Turkmenistan

(47) In 1980, the Summit Venture crashed into a bridge over this body of water, causing a collapse that
killed 35 people. This bay lies just north of the mouth of the Manatee River near Bradenton. The rebuilt
four-mile-long Sunshine Skyway Bridge carries Interstate 275 over the entrance to this body of water,
which is southeast of a peninsula whose cities include Dunedin and Clearwater. For the point, name this
Florida bay whose coast is home to St. Petersburg and a namesake city.
ANSWER: Tampa Bay

(48) This region, whose name means “place of ruins,” is north of the Kunlun Mountains. In this Asian
region, mummies dating back thousands of years have been found in the Tarim Basin. Found in the
autonomous region of Xinjiang [shin-jee-ang], this desert’s dryness resulted in many oases springing up
along its Silk Road stops. For the point, name this Chinese desert east of the Gobi.
ANSWER: Taklamakan Desert (prompt on Tarim Basin before mentioned)

(49) An opera house in this province was designed by Zaha Hadid and controversially opened in 2010 with
Turandot. The leader of the Taiping Rebellion, Hong Xiuquan, was born in this province. The Leizhou
Peninsula lies along this province, whose largest city is home to the CITIC Plaza; that capital of this
province lies on the Pearl River and is north of Macau and Hong Kong. For the point, name this southern
province of China, the most populous in the nation.
ANSWER: Guangdong (or Canton or Kwangtung)

(50) This region is home to an alluvial plain called the Baetic Depression. The Guadalquivir river flows
through this region, which contains the Alcázar palace complex. A monument in this city served as both
an Islamic and Christian center of worship after a 711 invasion, but became exclusively a mosque under
Abd al-Rahman. The Christians won that city back during the Reconquista. Cordoba and Seville are in,
For the point, what region of southern Spain?
ANSWER: Andalusia




                                                 Page 9
