2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                   Round 3



Geography Round 3
Regulation Tossups
(1)     After 22 fellow crewmen were killed in this country, William Mariner was taken in
by natives, after which he wrote an influential memoir of his time there. Large bats known
as flying foxes are considered sacred in this country where they form a large colony in the
village of Kolovai. Ahoʻeitu is considered a legendary king in this country that contains such
island groups as Ha'apai and Vava'u. This country, which consists of 169 islands, has been
led by King Tupou VI and is located east of New Caledonia and Vanuatu. For the point,
identify this Polynesian kingdom with capital at Nukuʻalofa.

ANSWER: Kingdom of Tonga (accept Puleʻanga Fakatuʻi ʻo Tonga)

(2)     This island's indigenous name is Oualichi [[oo-ah-LEE-kee]], or "Island of Women,"
and this island's boundaries were first set by the 1648 Treaty of Concordia. It's not St. Kitts
or Nevis, but this island contains the Great Salt Pond, along with the settlements of Marigot
and the Lower Prince's Quarter. The southern part of this island is one of four constituent
countries of the Netherlands, and this island's main airport was named after Princess
Juliana. For the point, name this island in the Caribbean that is split into similarly named
French and Dutch sections.

ANSWER: Saint Martin (or Sint Maarten)

(3)     Abandoned communities on this archipelago include Smeerenburg, whose only
remains are a set of "blubber ovens," and Pyramiden [[peer-ah-MID-en]], a site projected to
resist decay for centuries due to this archipelago’s extreme cold. The northernmost civilian
settlement in the world, Ny-Ålesund [[nee-OH-leh-sund]], the Russian coal mining town of
Barentsburg, and the Global Seed Vault in Longyearbyen are on this archipelago's island of
Spitsbergen. For the point, name this Arctic Sea archipelago of Norway.

ANSWER: Svalbard (accept Spitsbergen before mentioned)

(4)     In 1892, an item with this name replaced the usage of yang in its country and was
set at a valuation that equaled 100 jeon. In English, this item is often denoted by two
horizontal lines through the first letter of its name, and one currency with this name has
banknotes whose reverses include images of the International Friendship Exhibition and
Paektu Mountain. Another currency with this name features pictures of figures like Shin
Saimdang and Sejong the Great. For the point, give this common name for currencies used
by both North and South Korea.

ANSWER: Won [[WAHN]] (accept South Korean Won; accept North Korean Won; do not
accept or prompt on "Yuan")
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                Round 3


(5)     The Fortress of Klis [[KLEESS]] separates this historical region's Mosor Mountain
and Kozjak [[KOHZ-yahk]] Mountain, the latter of which overlooks the Roman ruins of
Salona. This region’s longest river is the Cetina [[TSEH-tee-nah]], which stretches from the
island of Rab in the north to the Bay of Kotor in the south. Hvar, Pag, and Brač [[BRAHTCH]]
are islands in the Adriatic Sea off the coast of this region, whose most populous cities are
Split and Dubrovnik. For the point, name this coastal region of Croatia.

ANSWER: Dalmatia (prompt on "Croatia" before mentioned; anti-prompt on "Dinaric
Alps")

(6)     The best-known name of this body of water was decided through a 2000 survey
administered among 68 nations. Mawson Station lies on this body of water whose
Livingston Island was discovered by a merchant en route to Valparaiso. During the Five
Deeps Expedition, Victor Vescovo visited this body of water's South Sandwich Trench. The
Weddell Sea lies within this ocean that contains Queen Maud Land and is sometimes
referred to by the term "Austral." Antarctica sometimes names, for the point, what iceberg-
heavy body of water that is considered the fifth ocean?

ANSWER: Southern Ocean (accept Antarctican Ocean before "Antarctica" is mentioned;
accept Austral Ocean before "Austral" is mentioned)

(7)    The Fertit Hills and Yade Massif are among the features in the north of this country,
where the Sangha River is formed. Mont Ngaoui [[nn-GOW-ee]] is the highest point in this
country whose subprefecture of Bakouma is home to large mineral reserves including
uranium. Bimbo is the second-largest city in in this country where a border with a southern
neighbor is partly defined by the Ubangi River. The Séléka operated in this country that is
north of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. For the point, name this landlocked African
country with capital at Bangui, located in a namesake region.

ANSWER: Central African Republic (or CAR; or République centrafricaine; accept RCA)

(8)       Yevgeny Vuchetich designed a 1967 monument on this city's Mamayev Kurgan that
is still the tallest statue in Europe. This city's Panorama Museum includes the bombed-out
ruins of Gerhardt's Mill, which is just across the street from Pavlov's House, named for the
platoon commander who held it for 60 days against besieging German troops in 1942. The
Motherland Calls commemorates the Battle of Stalingrad in, for the point, what Russian city
which is now named for the longest river in Europe?

ANSWER: Volgograd (accept Stalingrad before mentioned)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                Round 3


(9)     The coat of arms of this country depicts a crown flanked by two jaguars, one of
which holds a pick axe. An airstrip, where Leo Ryan was assassinated, can be found in this
country's city of Port Kaituma. The Essequibo River flows through this country where a
majority of citizens speak a namesake creole based on English, and New Amsterdam is a
port in this country where the People's Temple operated a compound at Jonestown. Found
just west of Suriname, this is, for the point, what South American country with capital at
Georgetown?

ANSWER: Cooperative Republic of Guyana

(10) This country's Lori Province contains the Sanahin Monastery, and the Metsamor
Nuclear Power Plant produces roughly 40 percent of the electricity for this country. This
country's alphabet was developed by Mesrop Mashtots. In 2018, this country experienced a
Velvet Revolution when Nikol Pashinyan ousted Serzh Sargsyan as prime minister. The Aras
River forms this country's border with Iran. For the point, name this former Soviet Republic
which fought a 2020 war over Nagorno-Karabakh with its neighbor, Azerbaijan.

ANSWER: Republic of Armenia (or Hayastani Hanrapetut'yun)

(11) This country's Tsodilo Hills contain over 4,500 rock paintings and archaeological
evidence of early Iron Age smelters. This country's Debswana Company operates several
diamond mines in a joint venture with this country's government and De Beers. This
country's city of Maun is a major tourist hub, as it is located near both the Makgadikgadi
[[mahk-GAH-deek-GAH-dee]] salt pan and the Okavango River Delta. For the point, name
this Southern African nation formerly known as Bechuanaland that has its capital at
Gaborone [[gab-ah-ROH-nee]].

ANSWER: Republic of Botswana

(12) In 2014, Lakota spiritual leader Arvol Looking Horse submitted a proposal to
change this location’s name, which is derived from a mistranslation recorded during Colonel
Richard Irving Dodge’s 1875 expedition to the site. Tourism at this location increased after
it was featured prominently in Steven Spielberg's 1977 film Close Encounters of the Third
Kind. For the point, name this rock butte in the Black Hills of Wyoming which was the first
U.S. National Monument.

ANSWER: Devils Tower (accept Bear Lodge Butte)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                  Round 3


(13) Downstream of Ségou [[SEH-goo]], this river loses most of its water in marshland as
it approaches the salt-trading port of Mopti. The Movement for the Emancipation of this
river's delta is engaged in a conflict over petroleum rights for the Ijaw [[EE-jaw]] people of
Biafra. This river's tributaries include the Bani and the Benue [[ben-WEH]], and its inner
delta, the Sahel's [[suh-HELS]] main wetland, formed the core of the Songhai and Mali
Empires. For the point, name this longest river of West Africa.

ANSWER: Niger [[nee-ZHEHR]] River (accept Joliba, Kwara, Toru Beni, Óshimiri, Ọya,
Egerew, or Maayo Ɓaleewo; accept phonetic pronunciations)

(14) This country's ward of Fontvieille [[fohn-VYEH]] was created as part of a land
reclamation project that has impacted each of this country's four quartiers [[kwahr-TYEH]].
The urban center of this country is commonly referred to as "The Rock," and the La
Condamine [[kohn-dah-MEEN]] district is located near this city's Port Hercule [[ehr-
KYOOL]] on the Mediterranean Sea. The Princess Grace Rose Garden is located in, for the
point, what principality on the French Riviera that features casinos within Monte Carlo?

ANSWER: Principality of Monaco (or Principaute de Monaco)

(15) Like one of the Kachi Mayu Rivers, the origin of this river's longest western tributary
is thought to be the Jach'a Juqhu [[JAH-chah JOO-koo]] River. While not located on Taiwan,
this river has a city named Formosa on its banks, and its headwaters are formed are formed
in the state of Mato Grosso. With a source near Diamantino, this river's tributaries include
the Pilcomayo. The Guarani have historically lived along this river that divides a heavily
forested region in its country from the Gran Chaco. For the point, name this river which is
named for a South American country with capital at Asunción.

ANSWER: Paraguay River (accept Río Paraguay; accept Rio Paraguai; accept Ysyry
Paraguái)

(16) This country's village of Kalachi is the only known site at which victims suffer from
Sleepy Hollow, a disease which scientists suggest may be caused by a Soviet-era uranium
mine. This country's president works out of the Ak Orda Palace, located in this country's
capital, formerly known as Akmolinsk, on the Ishim River. This country's capital was
recently renamed for Nursultan Nazarbayev, and was moved from Almaty in 1997. For the
point, name this large Central Asian country.

ANSWER: Republic of Kazakhstan (or Qazaqstan Respublikasy)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                  Round 3


(17) Previously a stop for treasure fleets, this present-day country's city of Nombre de
Dios is one of the oldest continuously-inhabited European settlements in the continental
Americas. This country's city of Portobelo was sacked during the War of Jenkins' Ear, and
that port is a World Heritage Site along with this country's Fort San Lorenzo. This country
uses the U.S. dollar alongside another currency, the balboa. Lake Gatun was created when
the Chagres [[CHA-gress]] River was dammed in, for the point, what Central American
country?

ANSWER: Republic of Panama (or Republica de Panama)

(18) This country's Bilu Island is located west of the city of Mawlamyine [[MOH-LAHM-
YINE]] in its Mon state. This nation’s largest hydropower plant, Lawpita Falls, is located
within its Karen Hills, while its highest peak, Hkakabo [[KAH-KAH-BOH]] Razi, is the highest
point in Southeast Asia and located in a subrange of the Himalayas. This country has been
perpetrating a genocide against the Rohingya Muslims of its Rakhine state. For the point,
name this country that moved its capital from Yangon to Naypyidaw.

ANSWER: Republic of the Union of Myanmar (accept Union of Burma; accept Pyidaungzu
Thammada Myanma Naingngandaw)

(19) This region's leader, the Lehendakari, lives in the Palace of Ajuria [[ah-HOO-ree-ah]]
Enea in its de facto capital of Vitoria-Gasteiz [[gah-STEH-eez]]. This region's marmitako dish
originated from tuna fishermen in the Cantabrian Sea. Jai alai [[HYE-ah-lye]] is commonly
played in this region which is home to the Frank Gehry-designed Guggenheim Museum.
Euskadi Ta Askatasuna was a terrorist organization dedicated to the independence of this
region whose most populous city is Bilbao. For the point, name this "autonomous
community" on the northern coast of Spain.

ANSWER: Basque Country (or Basque Autonomous Community; or País Vasco; accept
Euskadi before mentioned)

(20) This country is home to Beaufort Castle, which was captured by the Baibars. "The
Sound of Resilience" was the title given to a 2020 cultural event in this country's Beqaa
[[beh-KAH]] Valley that is known as the Baalbeck International Festival. The Sidon [[SYE-
dun]] District is located in this country that contains one of the oldest continuously-
inhabited cities on Earth, where the Phoenicians lived at Byblos. Tyre is located in this
country that contains the Saint George Maronite Cathedral. For the point, name this Middle
Eastern country with capital at Beirut.

ANSWER: Lebanon (or Lebanese Republic; accept al-jumhūrīyah al-Lubnānīyah)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                     Round 3


(21) Iraqi migrants given "hunting tour" visas to this country used wire cutters to open
fences near a neighboring country's city of Kuźnica [[kooz-NEET-sah]]. This country
grounded Ryanair flight 4978 in May 2021 to arrest journalist Roman Protasevich, who had
provided news about the loss of opposition candidate Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya [[tsee-kah-
noo-SKY-ah]] in its 2020 presidential election. Street protests against Alexander
Lukashenko took place in, for the point, what country with its capital at Minsk?

ANSWER: Republic of Belarus (or Respublika Byelarus'; or Respublika Belarus')

(22) In the Mongstad scandal, executives resigned from this country's Statoil company,
which later rebranded itself as Equinor in a 2007 merger. Along with two British divers, two
men from this country were killed by explosive decompression on the Byford Dolphin in the
Frigg gas field. The world's first offshore carbon capture and storage facility was built in this
country's Sleipner [[SLAYP-neer]] natural gas field. For the point, name this country whose
large petroleum reserves in the Barents and North Seas have made it the richest Nordic
country.

ANSWER: Kingdom of Norway (or Kongeriket Norge)

(23) The fork of one tributary of this river is impounded by Jim Chapman Lake and is
known as the Sulphur River. This river, along with the Atchafalaya, of which this river is a
tributary, experienced a major 1830s log jam known as the Great Raft. This river meets
another of its tributaries at a reservoir near Durant known as Lake Texoma. The Washita
River flows out of, for the point, what river which forms much of the Texas-Oklahoma
border?

ANSWER: Red River of the South (do not accept "Red River of the North")

(24) The pentozali is a folk dance native to this island, whose other cultural traditions
include Mantinades [[mahn-tee-NAH-dehss]] poetry and music accompanied by the lyra and
the laouto. This island's port of Chania [[KAH-nee-ah]] is considered a gateway to ski
tourism in the Lefka Ori, or White Mountains, which are also home to the Samaria Gorge.
Archaeologist Arthur Evans discovered the Linear A and Linear B scripts while excavating
this island's Palace of Knossos. Heraklion is the capital of, for the point, what Greek island,
once home to the Minoan civilization?

ANSWER: Crete (or Kriti)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                   Round 3


(25) Wazner and Mekh ruled this region according to the Palermo Stone, and they are
believed to have worn a red crown. This geographical feature is watered by two
distributaries ending in Rosetta and Damietta, although in ancient times seven flowed out of
its country's main river. This region is bordered to the west by Alexandria and to the east by
Port Said [[sah-EED]]. "Lower Egypt" once primarily covered, for the point, what triangle-
shaped feature where a major African river meets the Mediterranean?

ANSWER: Nile Delta (accept Tsakhet or Miṣr as-Suflā; accept Lower Egypt until "Lower";
prompt on partial answers; accept descriptions of the region in which the Nile meets the
Mediterranean before mentioned)

(26) This nation is the only Middle Eastern country to have won the Academy Award for
Best International Feature Film, doing so twice for “A Separation” in 2012 and “The
Salesman” in 2017, both directed by Asghar Farhadi. One of this country’s UNESCO World
Heritage Sites, Persepolis, lends its name to the Marjane Satrapi [[mahr-ZHAHN sah-TRAH-
pee]] film that won a Jury Prize at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival. For the point, name this
country whose film industry is also known as the Cinema of Persia, a reference to its former
name.

ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Iran (or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran)

(27) In the northwest area of this city, the Monsanto Forest Park, one of the largest urban
parks in Europe, is near the suburb of Amadora. Examples of this city's Manueline Gothic
architecture include the Jerónimos Monastery and the Belém Tower. This city's Carmo
Convent and Ribeira Palace were destroyed in a 1755 earthquake and tsunami. Cabo da
Roca, the westernmost point of mainland Europe, is ten miles west of this city. The Vasco da
Gama Bridge crosses the Tagus [[TAY-gus]] River in, for the point, what capital of Portugal?

ANSWER: Lisbon (or Lisboa)

(28) This country's Hoorn Islands are divided into the Kingdoms of Alo and Singave and
are part of its territory of Wallis and Futuna. Another one of this country's islands, Hiva Oa,
dominates the Marquesan Chain, while Bora-Bora lies leeward in the Society Islands.
Mayotte is the only part of the Comoros still belonging to this country, while Dominica in
the Caribbean is bordered to the north and south by this country's islands of Guadeloupe
and Martinique. For the point, name this country that also controls Corsica.

ANSWER: France (accept the French Republic; accept République Française)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                    Round 3


(29) A theatre named for Mayor Raymond Tucker is located beneath this structure. A
hoax involving this structure claimed that a drunken man attempted to land on this
structure while dressed as Santa Claus. Hannskarl Bandel created a formula for the building
of this structure, which stands at exactly 630 feet tall and 630 feet wide. Eero Saarinen, a
Finnish-American architect, used a catenary shape to design, for the point, what landmark
in St. Louis?

ANSWER: Gateway Arch (accept Gateway Arch National Park; prompt on "The Arch")

(30) The first two films shot in this city were the 1910 Edison productions The
Cowpuncher's Glove and The Ship's Husband. This city's Georgia Viaduct was featured in
Deadpool, and this city's Marine Building doubled as the headquarters for the Daily Planet in
Smallville. This city's aquarium is located in Stanley Park and has been featured in episodes
of A Million Little Things and Psych. For the point, name this Canadian city and frequent
filming location sometimes called "Hollywood North," located in British Columbia.

ANSWER: Vancouver

(31) This city's TriMet transit authority excluded cars from its "Bridge of the People,"
Tilikum Crossing. Asa Lovejoy lost a coin toss that would have led to this city getting named
"Boston, and prior to that, it was called "Stumptown." This city is known for its vegetated
"Ecoroof" initiative, and Pioneer Courthouse Square is at the center of this city's downtown.
This city's western suburb of Beaverton is home to Nike's global headquarters. Named for a
city in Maine, for the point, what is this center of "hipster" culture located in the Willamette
Valley of Oregon?

ANSWER: Portland

(32) One of this island's official anthems is an ethnic song that translates to "The Land of
Great Length." Camp Century was built on this island during an effort to establish a missile
system underneath it, and members of the 821st Air Base Group are stationed at this
island's Thule [[TOO-leh]] Air Base. Roughly ten thousand people live in a municipality on
this island called Avannaata that is roughly 500,000 square kilometers in size. A constituent
country of Denmark, this is, for the point, what large island with capital at Nuuk?

ANSWER: Greenland (accept Kalaallit Nunaat; accept Grønland)

(33) This city's nearby locations of Camp Bullis, Randolph Air Force Base, and Fort Sam
Houston have given this city the trademarked designation “Military City U.S.A.” Marriage
Island and the Maverick-Carter House are along this city's River Walk, which is on a
tributary of the Guadalupe River. This city's five Spanish missions were named a UNESCO
World Heritage site in 2015. For the point, name this majority-Hispanic Texas city which is
home to the Alamo.

ANSWER: San Antonio
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                    Round 3


(34) This city’s historic main thoroughfare is called La Canebière, which was built by
King Louis XIV. This city contains the Château d'If, a historic prison and setting of the
Alexander Dumas novel The Count of Monte Cristo. This city is the capital of the Bouches-du-
Rhône département in the south of France. This city’s historic Vieux-Port is located on the
Gulf of Lion to the southeast of Berre Lagoon. For the point, name this coastal city, the oldest
and second-most populous city in France.

ANSWER: Marseille

(35) Lake Saint Anne is nestled in this mountain range, and that body of water located
near the settlement of Mohos is the only crater lake within its nation. A people who share a
name with this range were originally mass deported to Pannonia by the Roman military on
the order of Constantine the Great. This range’s highest peak is Gerlach, and it includes the
sub-range of the Tatras, which cover Slovakia and Poland. For the point, name this
European mountain range that covers half of Romania.

ANSWER: Carpathian Mountains



Extra Questions
(1)     Entergy is the only Fortune 500 company headquartered in this city that lies on
Lake Borgne. Bourbon Street is a heavily visited area within the French Quarter of this city
that is divided into parishes. Residents of this city with a rich Cajun influence enjoy dishes
like etouffée and gumbo. Major Mardi Gras festivities are held in this city whose levees were
extensively damaged during Hurricane Katrina. For the point, name this major city in
Louisiana.

ANSWER: New Orleans (accept NOLA)
