2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                     Finals



Geography Finals
Regulation Tossups
(1)     Under the governorship of John Poyer, this place recorded no deaths from the
Spanish Flu pandemic. This entity's administration of the uninhabited Swains Island
has been the subject of dispute with Tokelau, a territory of New Zealand. This entity's
village of (+) Atu'u features a statue of Charlie the Tuna at its Starkist cannery, a
major industry in the territory. This territory is across the International Date Line
from the islands of (*) Sava'i and Upolu. For the points, name this southernmost U.S.
territory with capital at Pago-Pago [[PAHNG-oh PAHNG-oh]].

ANSWER: American Samoa (or Amerika Sāmoa; Do not accept or prompt on "Samoa.")

(2)      This city's Horse Memorial is a life-sized bronze statue of a soldier giving a
horse a bucket of water and honors horses that have died in combat. This city's Fort
Frederick was built to protect against French attacks and overlooks Algoa Bay. This
city's rapid growth as a railroad and (+) safari tourism hub have led to it being called
the "Liverpool" of its country, and this city contains the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium.
(*) For the points, name this largest city of South Africa's Eastern Cape Province whose
official name was changed in 2021 to its local Xhosa [[KOH-suh]] name.

ANSWER: Gqeberha [[GLIK-ee-BEHR-hah]] (or Port Elizabeth; or P.E.)

(3)    This region's Northern Hills are populated with a namesake variety of white
spruce which does not grow in this region's Bear Lodge Mountains. A dam built in
1891 across this region's Sunday Gulch Creek formed the (+) Sylvan Lake, a popular
starting point for hikes to The Needles and Black Elk Peak. The third-longest cave in
the world, (*) Jewel Cave, is found in this region thirteen miles west of the town of Custer.
A gold rush led to the removal of the Lakota from this region, now home to Mount
Rushmore. For the points, name this mountain range of South Dakota.

ANSWER: Black Hills (or Ȟe Sápa; accept Black Hills National Forest)

(4)    This island is home to the predominately Christian Torajan [[toh-RAH-jahn]]
people, and this island's city of Parepare [[PAH-reh-PAH-reh]] was the birthplace of
its nation's third president, Jusuf Habibie [[YOO-suf hah-BEE-bee]]. The ornate
lorikeet and the babirusa, or (+) "deer-pig," are fauna native to this island whose
major cities include Palu, Manado, and the historic trading port of (*) Makassar. For
the points, name this third-most populated island of Indonesia, which is separated from
Borneo and also called Celebes [[SEH-leh-bees]].

ANSWER: Sulawesi (accept Celebes before mentioned)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                 Finals


(5)     In this city in 2017, 56 prisoners were killed after a riot at the Anísio Jobim
[[ZHOH-beem]] Penitentiary. A February 2021 Washington Post story by Júlia Ledur
mapped the difficult logistics of supplying this city with oxygen during the Covid-19
pandemic. This city's São Sebastião Square is overlooked by a pink (+) opera house
that was featured at the beginning of Fitzcarraldo and was built during this city's (*)
rubber boom. For the points, name this capital of the Brazilian state of Amazonas, the
largest city in the Amazon Rainforest.

ANSWER: Manaus

(6)    Boot Canyon is this park's primary habitat for the Colima warbler and is
located near its highest point, Emory Peak. This park contains portions of Boquillas
Canyon and Santa Elena Canyon, which are on the northern end of the Sierra del (+)
Carmen. In this park, that range then becomes the Chisos [[CHEE-sohss]] Mountains,
the only mountain range entirely contained in a (*) U.S. national park. For the points,
name this park in the Chihuahuan Desert of Texas, named for a curve in the Rio Grande.

ANSWER: Big Bend National Park

(7)    The Allied landings to liberate this region were known as Operation
Cherryblossom and included fighting at Cape Torokina. This region's ten-year civil
war shut down its Panguna mine, which sits on one of the world's largest copper
deposits, and this region's cities include Arawa and its capital, (+) Buka. In 2019, this
region voted overwhelmingly to separate from one country in a non-binding (*)
independence referendum. For the points, name this autonomous region of Papua New
Guinea, which is scheduled to become an independent nation in 2027.

ANSWER: Autonomous Region of Bougainville (or Otonomos Region bilong Bogenvil;
accept Bougainville campaign)

(8)     This city’s July 15 Kizilay Square had its name modified to commemorate the
failure of a 2016 coup attempt. This city’s Column of Julian monument honors a visit
by Roman emperor Julian the Apostate, while its Ottoman architecture includes the
Mahmutpaşa Covered (+) Bazaar and the Kurşunlu Bazaar, both of which have been
converted into the Anatolian Civilizations Museum. Anitkabir, the mausoleum of (*)
Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, can be found in, for the points, what capital of Turkey?

ANSWER: Ankara (or Ancyra; or Angora)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                   Finals


(9)     In 1970, Hunter S. Thompson ran for sheriff of this town's Pitkin County on the
"Freak Power" platform, which would have included renaming it "Fat City."
Snowmass and Glenwood Springs are suburbs of this city in the Roaring Fork Valley
near White River National Forest. Walter Paepcke, (+) the founder of this town's
Institute for Humanistic studies, hired Bauhaus architect Herbert Bayer to renovate
this town's Wheeler Opera House and promote its (*) skiing industry. The Winter X
Games are held at Buttermilk Mountain in, for the points, what resort town in the Rocky
Mountains of Colorado?

ANSWER: Aspen (accept Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies)

(10) This city’s Erdaoqiao [[ehr-DAO-chee-AO]] Market, or Grand Bazaar, offers
Laghman, Poly, and Chuan, foods of the ethnic minorities native to this city's region.
The Zhen Long Pagoda and Yu Huang Ge Buddhist temple are atop the Hong Shan, or
Red Mountain, at the center of this city, whose other sites include (+) People's Square,
the center of the 2009 Shaoguan riots. This city, located at the northern end of the
Eastern (*) Tian Shan, has a name that translates to "fine pastures" in Uyghur. For the
points, name this capital of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in northwestern China.

ANSWER: Ürümqi [[o-ROOM-chee]] (or Urumchi)

(11) Old Speckle Mountain is the highest peak in this range's Mahoosuc subrange,
which is shared between the two states encompassed by this range. This mountain
range once contained a famous feature on (+) Cannon Mountain, and once recorded a
then-record 231-mile-per-hour surface wind gust. Mt. (*) Adams and Mt. Jefferson can
be found in a subrange of this mountain range whose highest peak is Mt. Washington. The
Old Man of the Mountain once existed in, what subrange of the Appalachians that contains
the highest peaks in New Hampshire?

ANSWER: White Mountains (accept Mahoosuc Range before mentioned; prompt on
"Appalachian" Mountains or "Appalachians" before mentioned)

(12) A mountain named after Paul Sharples in this national park is sometimes
called "The Thumb," and views of the Fiddle Valley can be enjoyed from this national
park's Miette Hot Springs. This park's Maligne Lake is home to the much-
photographed Spirit Island, and (+) Marmot Basin is a popular skiing destination
within this national park containing Tonquin Pass. Mount Athabasca can be found in
this national park, which is connected via the (*) Icefields Parkway to Banff at its south.
For the points, identify this Canadian national park located in Alberta's portion of the
Rockies.

ANSWER: Jasper National Park
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                         Finals


(13) Hikers at this national park can enjoy the King Snake and Weston Lake Loop
Trails. An educational documentary on this national park was titled Roots of the
River, and that namesake river of this national park merges with a tributary of the
Santee north of its state's Lake (+) Marion. This national park was originally a
"Swamp National Monument" that was created through preservation efforts backed
by Strom (*) Thurmond. A boardwalk takes visitors through the marshy bottomland
hardwood forest of, for the points, what national park near the city of Columbia, South
Carolina?

ANSWER: Congaree National Park (accept Congaree River; accept Congaree Swamp
National Monument)

(14) Examples of neoclassical architecture in this city include the Ripon Building,
whose foundation was laid by Lord Minto. The Dr. M.G.R Railway Station serves this
city where the Adyar Cancer Institute is among its many advanced healthcare
facilities. (+) Mahabalipuram is found near this city, which is served by the ITC Grand
Chola Hotel, and this city on the (*) Coromandel Coast of the Bay of Bengal is considered
the "Gateway of South India." For the points, name this Indian city in Tamil Nadu that was
once officially known as Madras.

ANSWER: Chennai (accept Madras until mentioned)

(15) The Provencal language of Faetar and Griko, a Greek dialect, are languages
spoken in villages of this region, while a port city in the south of this region is the
world's largest producer of farmed mussels. This region's Tremiti Islands, part of
Gargano National Park, are administered by the province of (+) Foggia [[FOHJ-jia]].
Lecce [[LAY-cheh]] is the center of this region's agricultural industry, which has the
highest vineyard acreage and olive oil production in Italy. (*) Bari is the capital of, for
the points, what region of Italy, north of the Gulf of Taranto and west of the Strait of Otranto,
forming the "heel" of Italy's boot?

ANSWER: Apulia (or Puglia)

(16) The "5+2" [[five plus two]] talks concern the status of this region, where a
1992 cease-fire is enforced by the Joint Control Commission. This state's Sheriff
Corporation was accused of plotting to overthrow its first president, Igor Smirnov, for
Yevgeny Shevchuk. This state is now led by Vadim (+) Krasnoselsky, who has
supported unifying it with Russia following the invasion of Crimea. This westernmost
member of the Commonwealth of (*) Unrecognized States is governed from Tiraspol and
lies between the Dniester and the Ukrainian border. For the points, name this breakaway
region of Moldova.

ANSWER: Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic (or PMR; accept Transnistria)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                     Finals


(17) This city's Albion House served as the headquarters of the White Star Line at
the time of the Titanic disaster, while its St. George's Hall and Walker Art Gallery,
located on William Brown Street, are prominent examples of Victorian-era
neoclassical architecture. The term (+) "scouser" for residents of this city refers to a
Lancashire beef or lamb stew popularized by its sailors. This city's Stanley Park
separates (*) Goodison Park from the larger Anfield Stadium. The Merseyside derby is
named for a river that enters the Irish Sea southwest of, for the points, what city where the
Beatles were formed?

ANSWER: Liverpool

(18) A capital city with this name contains the V.C. Bird International Airport and
the Sandy Island lighthouse. A river with this name discharges around Mayport and
has its source at Vero Beach in Indian (+) River County. Another city with this name is
the easternmost point of mainland North America and the capital of the easternmost
province of (*) Canada. For the points, identify this name shared by the longest river in
Florida, as well as the capitals of Antigua and Barbuda and Newfoundland and Labrador.

ANSWER: St. John's (accept St. John's River)

(19) This city's Striezelmarkt, the oldest Christmas market in the world, is held in
its Altmarkt Square during Advent. The landscape outside this city includes the Ore
Mountains and a national park and climbing area named for its resemblance to (+)
Switzerland. In 2019, over $1 billion of jewels, but not a 41-carat green diamond,
were stolen from a museum established by Augustus the Strong in this city on the (*)
Elbe River. The Green Vault and the Zwinger palace complex, an orangery for the Saxon
royal family, were reconstructed afterthe World War Two firebombing of, for the points,
what German city?

ANSWER: Dresden

(20) The original route of the MV Mwongozo travelled from this country's largest
city to the city of Mpulungu. In January 2019, this country's parliament officially
instituted a change of its political capital that was earlier promised by its leader
Pierre (+) Nkurunziza. Coffee is the main export of this country whose largest city is
Bujumbura, and, like a country directly to its north, this country is predominantly
made up of members of the (*) Tutsi and Hutu. Containing Gitega, this is, for the points,
what African country neighboring Rwanda whose official language is Kirundi?

ANSWER: Republic of Burundi (or Republique du Burundi; or Republika y'u Burundi)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                      Finals


(21) According to this island's folklore, blood-drinking witches regularly held
meetings in its mountainous region of Anaga. La Laguna is home to a major university
on this island, which is also home to an astronomical observatory on its (+) Teide
Peak. This island's capital of Santa Cruz is referred to as the "Sydney of the Atlantic."
Heavy fog at this island's Los Rodeos Airport led to an incident in which two Boeing
aircraft (*) collided, and this island is the most populous of an archipelago located off the
west coast of Morocco. For the points, name this largest of the Canary Islands.

ANSWER: Tenerife

(22) This city’s Santiago Calatrava-designed Turning Torso apartment building is
the oldest twisted skyscraper in the world. This city’s maritime history included a
bustling market for herring, now a popular street item, as well as the (+) Kockums
shipyard, which is currently owned by the Saab group. This city in Scania County is at
the eastern end of the (*) Öresund Bridge. For the points, name this third-most populous
city in Sweden, which is connected by that bridge to Copenhagen.

ANSWER: Malmö

(23) This city's commercial centers include the Souk Semmarine and the Jemaa el-
Fnaa, the main square of its medina. A museum dedicated to the French designer Yves
Saint Laurent commemorates his restoration of this city's Majorelle Garden. This
city's 12th-century (+) red walls were built by the Almoravid Dynasty, while its El
Badi Palace was built by the Saadi Sultan Ahmad al-Mansur. (*) For the points, name
this city, west of the Atlas Mountains, the fourth-most populous in Morocco.

ANSWER: Marrakesh (or Marrakech)

(24) The agribusiness company Elders Limited is based in this city and lends its
name to one of its main public parks. A prominent wine region is found within the
Mount Lofty Ranges, which are known as this city's namesake Hills. Holdfast Bay is
adjacent to this city, which the (+) Kaurna people originally referred to by a term
meaning "place of the red kangaroo." The suburb of Glenelg is a popular beach
destination in this city which lies on the Gulf of St. (*) Vincent and serves as the capital
of a state directly west of Victoria and New South Wales. For the points, name this capital of
South Australia.

ANSWER: Adelaide (accept Greater Adelaide; accept Tarndanya; accept Adelaide Hills)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                    Finals


(25) A lawyer named Darren Olivier calculated that this action would cost its
country $6 Million. This action, that was completed partly to commemorate its
country's 50th anniversary of independence, was officially announced at a sports
stadium in the city of Manzini by King (+) Mswati. It has been alleged that this action
was taken to prevent postal confusion when distinguishing this action's central
country from a similar-sounding country in Europe containing cities like (*) Lucerne
and Zurich. For the points, name this 2018 action in which a South African kingdom,
centered at Mbabane, made an official change.

ANSWER: Changing of the Name of the Kingdom of eSwatini from Swaziland (accept clear
knowledge equivalents like Changing the Name of Swaziland; accept equivalents like
"Renaming" in answers; prompt on partial answer)

(26) A Roundabout in this city is named for the fact that there is a sign telling
onlookers to smile, because they are in this city. Members of Imperial Airways were
protected by the Mahatta Fort that was built in this city, which is currently
undergoing a cultural restoration project named for this city's (+) "Heart." Like Ras Al
Khaimah, the Al Qasimi family rules this city that forms a metropolitan area with a
larger city and (*) Ajman. Following only Abu Dhabi and Dubai, this is, for the points, what
third-largest city and namesake of an emirate in the UAE?

ANSWER: Sharjah (accept Heart of Sharjah; accept Emirate of Sharjah)

(27) The lepetzi beetle is part of a genus of trilobites named after this desert where
one can find the oasis of Dandan Oilik. Petroleum-related shipments are often
transported across this desert along the Golmud–Korla. (+) Qira County can be found
within Hotan Prefecture in this desert that takes up much of the (*) Tarim Basin. The
Pamir and Tian Shan mountains form part of the boundary of, for the points, what desert
encompassing part of Xinjiang, bordering the Gobi, and contained entirely in Northwest
China?

ANSWER: Taklamakan Desert (accept Tǎkèlāmǎgān Shāmò; accept similar
pronunciations such as Taklimakan Desert or Teklimakan Desert)

(28) François Dunan lends his name to a hospital in this territory where the Villa
Cutty Sark was built with wooden crates that were used by Al Capone and others to
transport whiskey during Prohibition. In 1889, Auguste Neel was executed in this
territory with a guillotine shipped from (+) Martinique. An isthmus called La Dune
connects one island in this territory west of the Burin peninsula to the island of
Langlade. (*) For the points, name this French overseas collectivity off the coast of
Newfoundland in the Gulf of St. Lawrence.

ANSWER: Saint-Pierre and Miquelon
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                    Finals


(29) This island and Dominica are the only habitats of the giant ditch frog, which is
also known as the mountain chicken. The documentary The Other Final features this
country’s football team, which is largely composed of residents who evacuated it for
England. A new (+) capital of this island is being built at Little Bay since its current
capital at Plymouth is now a ghost town buried under (*) pyroclastic flows. For the
points, name this British territory, an "Emerald Island" in the Caribbean that, in 1995, was
heavily damaged by an eruption from the Soufrière Hills volcano.

ANSWER: Montserrat

(30) At 1,250,000 square feet, one of these commercial locations in Moreno Valley
is thought to be the largest in California. Developments by Kiva Systems are often
used to automate tasks in these commercial locations. A Staten Island example of
these commercial locations, known as JFK8, recently held a (+) vote that favored the
creation of the first union representing one of these places. Also known as (*)
fulfillment centers, these commercial places are company-owned and not outsourced as is
often the case with smaller e-Commerce companies. For the points, name these storage
locations used by a company founded by Jeff Bezos.

ANSWER: Amazon Warehouses (accept Amazon Fulfillment Centers before mentioned;
prompt on partial answers; prompt on answers indicating "Storage" but not giving terms
like "Warehouse" or "Fulfillment Center")

(31) The only direct fatality of a war named for this county may be Private Hiram T.
Smith, who, according to legend, drowned in a pond or froze to death. Two
lumberjacks injured by black bears were the only casualties of the Battle of Caribou
in this county, which covers much of the Saint John (+) Valley. Houlton is the seat of
this county, whose other communities include Presque Isle and Fort Kent, the
northern terminus of U.S. Route (*) 1. The largest county by area east of the Mississippi
River is, for the points, what Maine county that names a 19th-century border crisis ended
by the Webster-Ashburton Treaty?

ANSWER: Aroostook County (accept Aroostook War)

(32) Aitchison and Ali analyzed this event in a two-stage model by studying
ophiolite and magmatic records. In the run-up to this event, numerous islands were
formed at the Kerguelen hotspot on the southeast of one of the involved bodies,
which was moving at an unusually fast rate of 15 (+) centimeters per year. This event
marked the closure of the Tethys Sea that had previously divided its two central
entities, and orogeny brought about by this event led to the formation of the (*)
Himalayas. For the points, name this event in which the world's largest modern continent
joined with a subcontinent.

ANSWER: Asia-India Collision (accept clear knowledge equivalents in place of "Collision;"
prompt on partial answers; anti-prompt on "Formation of the Himalayas" or similar
answers)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                     Finals


(33) In 1956, Ernst Reiss and Fritz Luchsinger recorded the first known ascent of
this mountain, making their final push for the summit from the Geneva Spur. The
"Swiss Route" is a common path up this mountain that is separated from a taller one
by the South (+) Col. Translating to "South Peak" in Tibetan, this mountain forms a
ridge with the nearby Nuptse. (*) For the points, name this fourth-tallest mountain in the
world whose namesake "Face" is often traversed by those climbing Everest.

ANSWER: Lhotse (accept Dingjie Xie Sangma; accept Lhotse face)

(34) The tunnels of this city's Castillo San Felipe de Barajas were designed to alert
inhabitants of enemy combatant's footsteps. Bocagrande and Getsemani are among
the neighborhoods of this city, whose main gate is the Puerta del Reloj. Roughly
10,000 British troops were thought to have lost their lives during a (+) 1741 battle in
this city during the War of Jenkins' Ear, and this city serves as the capital of its
country's Bolívar Department. Listed just behind (*) Barranquilla, Cali, and Medellin in
population in its country, this is, for the points, what fifth-most populous city in Colombia
whose name means "New Carthage?"

ANSWER: Cartagena de Indias

(35) This city hosted the NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence,
which led to the creation of a manual named for this city that attempts to apply
international law to cyber warfare. This city also contains a namesake Song Festival
Grounds that hosts a music festival locally known as Laulupidu. Since 1998, the
government-owned Elron has operates trains within this city, which include
northeast routes to (+) Tartu. Close to half of all employees of Skype live (*) in, for the
points, what Baltic city on the Gulf of Finland, the capital of Estonia?

ANSWER: Tallinn
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV                  Finals


Extra Questions
(1)    Following "Sunrise," this desert lends its name to a movement in a work by
Ferde Grofé. This desert received its name during an attempt to find the Seven Cities
of Cibola, and this desert extends through such cities as Holbrook. Portions of the (+)
Chinle Formation make up this desert that also contains part of Petrified (*) Forest
National Park. Variations in mineral content among the sandstone and mudstone result in
the name and distinctive look of, for the points, what colorful desert in Arizona?

ANSWER: Painted Desert

(2)     Loch Logan Waterfront is the central shopping area in this city, which is
roughly 15 miles away from Maselspoort. Governed by the Mangaung Metropolitan
Municipality, this city contains the University of the Free State and is home to its
country's Supreme (+) Court of Appeal. A yearly rose festival is held in this city that
serves as the judicial counterpart to capitals (*) Pretoria and Cape Town. For the points,
identify this city in South Africa with a name that means "Fountain of Flowers."

ANSWER: Bloemfontein (accept Mangaung before mentioned; accept ǀʼAuxa ǃXās)

(3)    This location was developed by an army officer named Georg Cartensen. One
of the world’s tallest carousels, the Star Flyer, is at this location. The Rutschebanen, a
wooden roller coaster that has been operating since 1914, is the oldest (+) ride at this
location. King Christian VIII gave Cartensen the license to establish this location
outside the Vesterport district. The main inspiration for (*) Disneyland, for the points,
what amusement park is in Copenhagen, Denmark?

ANSWER: Tivoli Gardens
