2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV              Round 2



Geography Bee Round 2
Regulation Tossups
(1)      This country is home to an ecologically rich location known as the Mana Pools.
Ndebele [[nn-DAY-bay-lay]] is among the official languages of this country, which hosted the
1995 All-African Games in cities like Chitungwiza. Operation Restore Order was an attempt
to clear slums in this country where the region of Matabeleland contains the city of Bulawayo.
The majority of the Shona people live in this country that contains an airport named after
President Robert Mugabe. For the point, name this African country with capital at Harare.

ANSWER: Republic of Zimbabwe (or Nyika yeZimbabwe)

(2)      Jules Verne said that the name for this body of water comes from the Spanish for
"gulfweed" in Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea and further described this region as a
"cool, tranquil, motionless ocean." Jean Rhys [[JEEN REESS]] borrowed the name of this "sea"
for the title of a novel that takes place in the Caribbean, to the southwest of this region. Noted
for having no land boundaries, for the point, what is this ocean gyre which is bounded on the
north by the North Atlantic Current and on the west by the Gulf Stream?

ANSWER: Sargasso Sea (accept Wide Sargasso Sea)

(3)     This region's industries include phosphate mining in the Khibiny Mountains, while
one of its ports is linked to Churchill, Manitoba via the Arctic Bridge shopping route. The
"throat" of a nearby sea separates this region from the Winter Coast of the Arkhangelesk
Oblast. The deepest point ever reached in the Earth's crust is this peninsula's Superdeep
Borehole, while its city of Murmansk is the most populous city north of the Arctic Circle. The
White Sea is south of, for the point, what peninsula of Northwestern Russia?

ANSWER: Kola Peninsula (accept Murmansk Oblast before "peninsula" is mentioned)

(4)     This country's Laamu Atoll contains its largest inhabited island, Gan. Thaana is the
language spoken by residents of this country, which features the lowest average elevation of
any country on Earth. The Velana International Airport brings tourists to this country via an
atoll that contains the capital, Malé. For the point, identify this Asian country in the Indian
Ocean, an archipelago located southwest of Sri Lanka.

ANSWER: Republic of Maldives (or Dhivehi Raajjeyge Jumhooriyyaa; or Dhivehi Raajje)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV            Round 2


(5)     This city is situated on the alluvial fan formed by its major water source, the Toyohira
River, and is located on the Ishikari Plain. This city's northern and southern sections are
divided by Odori Park, the site of this city’s TV Tower and annual Snow Festival. This city's
Mount Teine [[teh-EE-neh]] was the main venue for the skiing and bobsledding competitions
during the 1972 Winter Olympic Games, and this city hosted the marathon for the 2020
Summer games. First settled by the Ainu people, for the point, name this capital of Hokkaido.

ANSWER: Sapporo-shi (accept Sapporo Teine)

(6)      This country's Great Astrolabe Reef, the world’s fourth-largest barrier reef, surrounds
its island of Kadavu. The Koro Sea surrounds many of the islands of this country whose
highest peak, Mount Tomanivi, is located in the northern highlands of Viti Levu. The
Mamanuca Islands in this country have been the filming location for more seasons of the
show Survivor than any other location. Located between Vanuatu and Tonga, for the point,
what archipelago that has its capital at Suva?

ANSWER: Republic of Fiji (or Matanitu ko Viti)

(7)      This city’s Monumental Cemetery contains the grave of architect Gio Ponti, who
designed its Branca Tower and Pirelli Tower, named for the tire company based in this city.
This city's Metropolitan Cathedral is the second-largest in Europe, while its Santa Maria delle
Grazie [[del-lay GRAHTZ-ee-ay]] convent houses Leonardo Da Vinci’s The Last Supper, which
was commissioned by a duke of this city, Ludovico Sforza [[SFORT-zah]]. This city's La Scala
is the largest opera house in Europe. For the point, name this capital of Lombardy, the second-
most populous city in Italy.

ANSWER: Milano

(8)     The Welsh town of Broughton [[BRAW-tun]] contains this company's only factory in
the United Kingdom. This company's military division acquired the Spanish CASA company
in 2009, and this company developed the Itinéraire [[ee-tee-neh-REHR]] à Grand Gabarit
[[gah-bah-REE]] route to manufacture one product that was discontinued in 2021. In 2015,
this company opened its first American factory in Mobile, Alabama, and this company's
headquarters are located in Blagnac [[blah-NAHK]], a suburb of Toulouse. For the point, name
this multinational aerospace corporation that manufactures the A320 and whose rivals
include Boeing.

ANSWER: Airbus SE
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV             Round 2


(9)      This state's archaeological site at Cuarenta Casas is believed to be the southernmost
extent of the Mogollon [[moh-GOH-yohn]] culture. This state's Naica Mine contains large
deposits of lead, silver, and zinc, as well as giant selenite crystals. Natural landmarks in this
state include the Samalayuca Sand Dunes and the Copper Canyon. This state's largest city
contains Paso del Norte, which crosses over the Rio Grande to El Paso, Texas, and is named
after its country's first indigenous president. For the point, name this largest Mexican state
that contains Ciudad Juarez [[see-YOO-dahd HWAH-ress]] and serves as the namesake of a
small breed of dog.

ANSWER: Chihuahua

(10) This country's Gulf of Gabès [[gah-BESS]] curves near the port city of Skhira. Sousse
[[SOO-sah]] is the second-most populous city in this country and administers the island of
Djerba. The Cape Bon peninsula is within this country that contains the Tataouine
governorate. This country's Cape Angela extends to the point of Ras ben Sakka, a continental
extreme that juts into the Mediterranean Sea. For the point, identify this northernmost
African country.

ANSWER: Republic of Tunisia (or Al Jumhuriyah at Tunisiyah)

(11) This location’s currency is the florin, but tourism from the United States is so common
that the U.S. dollar is accepted everywhere. This island’s history is evident in its two official
languages, Dutch and Papiamento [[pah-pyah-MEN-toh]], a Spanish and Portuguese creole.
This Caribbean island is accessible via its international airport named in honor of Queen
Beatrix. For the point, name this island in the Leeward Antilles that. along with Bonaire and
Curaçao [[KYOO-rah-sao]] is part of the ABC islands of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.

ANSWER: Country of Aruba

(12) This city’s Empress Market, built during the British Raj era, is in the Indo-Gothic style.
Businessman Shivratan Mohatta built this city’s Mohatta Palace in a Mughal Revival style in
1927 but left it when he returned to India after the 1947 partition. This city’s Bahria Town
Icon Tower, a 62-story modern high-rise offering views of the Arabian Sea, will be its nation’s
tallest building when completed. For the point, name this architecturally diverse megacity
that is the largest seaport in Pakistan.

ANSWER: Karachi
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV            Round 2


(13) This country has the world's largest reserves of tantalum and niobium, and its Kisanfu
mine, east of Kolwezi and west of Likasi in Lualaba Province, has one of the largest cobalt
reserves in the world. Until 2015, Lubumbashi was the capital of this country's southeastern
Katanga Province, whose borders included Lake Mweru with Zambia. This country's military
has fought rebel groups backed by neighboring Rwanda in the Kivu conflict, an extension of
a war against Laurent-Désiré Kabila. For the point, name this large Central African country
with capital Kinshasa.

ANSWER: Democratic Republic of the Congo (or DRC; or Republique Democratique du
Congo; or RDC; prompt on "Congo"; do not accept or prompt on "Republic of the Congo")

(14) Both ends of the Gornergrat Railway are overlooked by this mountain, which is north
of Breuil [[broy-EEL]]-Cervina, a town in the Aosta [[ah-OH-stah]] Valley, and east of Theodul
[[teh-oh-DOOL]] Pass. In 1865, four climbers died during Edward Whymper’s successful first
ascent of this mountain, which is most commonly accessed from the Hörnli Hut in Zermatt or
the Haute [[OHT]] Route from Chamonix [[shah-moh-NEE]] and Mont Blanc. For the point,
name this Alpine peak on the border of Italy and Switzerland.

ANSWER: Matterhorn (or Cervino)

(15) One film from this country, titled Living in Bondage, is credited with starting its film
industry's direct-to-video focus. One center of this country's film industry that produces
Hausa-language films is nicknamed "Kannywood," which is centered around its city of Kano.
Kongi's Harvest was the first indigenously-produced film from this country, and that film
starred the author of the source material, Wole [[WO-leh]] Soyinka. For the point, name this
African country that contains one of the largest national film industries in the world,
"Nollywood."

ANSWER: Federal Republic of Nigeria

(16) It's not Switzerland, but this is the southernmost country in Europe that is divided
into cantons. Tuzla is the third-largest city in this country where the mountain Trebević
[[TREH-beh-veech]] hosted events during the 1984 Winter Olympics. This country, that
contains part of the Dinaric Alps, is also home to the city of Neum, its only access port to the
Adriatic Sea. Croatia forms the Northern and Southwestern borders of, for the point, what
Balkan country with capital at Sarajevo?

ANSWER: Bosnia and Herzegovina (or Bosna i Hercegovina; or BiH; prompt on
"Bosnia")
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV           Round 2


(17) During Operation Kraai, this country's city of Bukittinggi [[BOO-kee-TING-ee]] served
as the headquarters of the PDRI. In 2019, this country's government announced plans to
spend $40 billion to prevent its capital from sinking, while also projecting that moving its
capital to East Kalimantan province would cost 466 trillion rupiahs. For the point, name this
country where, in March 2022, President Joko Widodo announced plans to move the capital
to the planned city of Nusantara from Jakarta.

ANSWER: Republic of Indonesia (or Republik Indonesia)

(18) Early 2000s protests over water privatization of this country's city of Cochabamba
inspired the plot of the Bond film Quantum of Solace. This country's Salar de Uyuni salt pans
served as the planet Crait in The Last Jedi. This country contains the Gate of the Sun Monolith
at Tiwanaku, and its town of San Vincente was where Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid
likely made their final stand. For the point, name this South American country whose women
traditionally wear bowler hats that shares Lake Titicaca with Peru.

ANSWER: Plurinational State of Bolivia (or Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia)

(19) Buzzard Point represents the former meeting place of this river and another river
once named its "Eastern branch" by John Smith. This river's North branch begins at the six-
ton Fairfax Stone in the Appalachian Mountains, while another of its tributaries parallels the
Skyline Drive of a Virginia national park. Harpers Ferry is located at this river's confluence
with the Shenandoah, and this river was previously serviced by the Chesapeake and Ohio
Canal, which parallels this river through Georgetown in Washington, D.C. For the point, name
this river along the Maryland-Virginia border.

ANSWER: Potomac River

(20) This landmass's namesake peat forests are home to large populations of the species
Tapirus indicus, its namesake tapir. Mount Tahan is the tallest peak in the Tenasserim Hills
which pass along this landmass that also contains the Kawthaung District. The state of
Selangor lies on this landmass that also contains part of the Klang Valley, and the narrowest
portion on this peninsula is known as the Isthmus of Kra. Separated by the Strait of Malacca
from Sumatra, this is, for the point, what Southeast Asian peninsula, west of the Gulf of Siam,
that contains Kuala Lumpur?

ANSWER: Malay Peninsula (accept Semenanjung Tanah Melayu; accept Malayan Tapir)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV           Round 2


(21) In a court case involving an injury sustained in this neighborhood, Justice Cardozo
claimed that “The timorous may stay at home.” The aforementioned “Flopper” case occurred
at this location, which contains attractions such as the Panama Slide and the Human Roulette
Wheel. This area lends its name to a Lawrence Ferlinghetti collection titled for this place of
the mind. Bounded by Brighton Beach, Steeplechase and Dreamland operate within this
section of Brooklyn. For the point, name this area of New York City, historically known for its
amusement parks and hot dogs.

ANSWER: Coney Island (accept Coney Island peninsula; accept A Coney Island of the
Mind; prompt on "Brooklyn" before mentioned)

(22) The shores of this body of water include the largest airport in the world by land area,
which is in the city of Dammam. In 1988, a civilian aircraft was shot down by the USS
Vincennes south of this body of water's Qeshm Island during the "Tanker War." The
Musandam Governorate is located on a peninsula between this body of water and the Gulf of
Oman. The U.S. Fifth Fleet is based at Manama in, for the point, what gulf from which one-
third of the world's supply of oil is shipped through the Strait of Hormuz?

ANSWER: Persian Gulf (or Xalij-e fârs; accept Gulf of Fars; accept Arabian Gulf; accept Al-
Khalīj al-ˁArabī)

(23) Gaps between courses at large meals in this region are often accompanied by rounds
of its native Calvados brandy, while its native cheeses include Camembert and Neufchâtel.
The Cotentin [[koh-ten-TAHN]] Peninsula, often named for the port of Cherbourg, is part of
this region, whose historical capital was Rouen [[roo-AHN]]. Other cities in this former duchy
include Le Havre [[luh-HAHV]], which is at the mouth of the Seine River. For the point, name
this region of Northwestern France, which was invaded by the Allies on D-Day in 1944.

ANSWER: Normandy

(24) The Dixon Entrance helps form the eastern boundary of this body of water, which was
the subject of a viral Facebook post in 2016 characterizing it as the place where two oceans
met without mixing. Lituya Bay can be found in this body of water which stretches west of
the Alexander Archipelago. The Cook Inlet stretches into this body of water known as Yéil
T'ooch in the Tlingit language. Stretching east from Kodiak Island, for the point, what body of
water is home to the cities of Sitka and Anchorage?

ANSWER: Gulf of Alaska (accept Yéil T'ooch before mentioned)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV             Round 2


(25) Cracks found on a bogie [BOH-jee], led to a brief 2017 withdrawal of one of these
things which are mainly operated by JR Central. The 100 Series of these things were the first
to feature bilevel cars, and the Zero series of these things were withdrawn in 2008. A test
facility for these things opened in Odawa in 1962, and the N700S Series of these things is
operated by JR Kyushu between Fukoka and Kagoshima. The SC Maglev type of these things
set a land speed record for rail vehicles. For the point, give this Japanese term for its high
speed trains.

ANSWER: Shinkansen (accept Japanese bullet trains before "Japanese"; prompt on "bullet
train" or "train")

(26) One island in this archipelago is home to a series of jagged peaks known as the Teeth
of Navarino. Hornos Island is among the Hermite Islands in this archipelago whose Selk'nam
population declined sharply during a gold rush that led to the growth of its city of Punta
Arenas. The Beagle Channel flows through the middle of this archipelago, which attracted
settlers during a sheep farming boom in Patagonia. Found between the mainland and the
Straight of Magellan, this is, for the point, what South American archipelago with a name
meaning "Land of Fire?"

ANSWER: Tierra del Fuego (prompt on "Land of Fire" or "Fireland")

(27) Muthaiga is among the most affluent portions of this city and is found in the
Westlands area containing a large expatriate population. Nicknamed "The Green City in the
Sun," this city is home to a mall that was the subject of a 2013 attack carried out by al-Shabaab
in Westgate. The Kibera slum can be found in this city which replaced Mombasa as its nation's
capital in 1907. For the point, name this "Safari Capital of the World," the capital of Kenya.

ANSWER: Nairobi

(28) A riverwalk on this river is planned to extend to Wolf Point, where Wacker Drive
turns to follow this river under the Lake Street Bridge. The Goose Island Brewery is named
for an island between this river and the North Branch Canal, though the brewery itself is
based in Lincoln Park. To prevent sewage from contaminating its city's drinking water, a
namesake Sanitary and Ship Canal connects this river to the Des Plaines [[DESS-PLAINS]]
River. Lake Michigan is the current source of, for the point, what river that flows around the
"Loop" of an Illinois city?

ANSWER: Chicago River (accept Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV          Round 2


(29) The resort of Mamaia is the centerpiece of this country’s "Riviera," while its city of
Orșova [[OR-shoh-vah]] is north of the Iron Gate gorge. This country’s rivers include the
Dâmbovița [[dem-baw-VEET-sah]] River, which flows through its capital, and the Prut River,
which forms its northeastern border. This country’s cultural center of Iași [[YAH-shee]] is in
its region of Moldavia, and its region of Wallachia [[wah-LAY-kee-ah]] borders Bulgaria. For
the point, name this country with capital Bucharest.

ANSWER: Romania

(30) Though not located in Yemen, this island's city of Moca serves as the capital of one
country's Espaillat [[eh-spy-YAHT]] Province. Close to 6,000 drawings make up the extensive
rock art in Pomier [[poh-MYEH]] Caves on this island, which is separated from another island
to the east by the Mona Passage. La Isabela was established on this island, which has been
historically inhabited by the Taíno people, and this most populous island in the West Indies
contains such cities as Santo Domingo and Port-au-Prince. For the point, name this large
island that contains the Dominican Republic and Haiti.

ANSWER: Hispaniola (accept Ayiti or Quisqueya; accept Ispayola; accept La Espanola;
accept Quisqueya or Ayiti; do not accept or prompt on "Dominican Republic" or "Haiti")

(31) Fishermen use bamboo torches to catch sardines off this country's port of Jinshan,
near Yangmingshan National Park and Keelung City. Foxconn is a major electronics
manufacturer from this country, whose TSMC is the world's largest semiconductor company.
This country is currently governed by the Democratic Progressive Party and President Tsai
Ing-Wen, but it was historically led by the Kuomintang. For the point, name this island
governed from Taipei.

ANSWER: Taiwan (or Republic of China; or ROC; do not accept or prompt on "China")

(32) This state's largest natural lake is called Spirit Lake by Native Americans and Devil's
Lake by others, while its largest reservoir is named for Sacagawea. This state's northern
border is home to a cactus collection at the International Peace Garden that gives this state
its nickname, and the eastern region of this state falls within the watershed of the Red River
of the North, flowing past the outskirts of Fargo. For the point, name this state with capital
Bismarck.

ANSWER: North Dakota
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV            Round 2


(33) The Route of Emperors and Kings, situated along this river, is partially named after
King Richard I of England, who was jailed in nearby Dürnstein Castle in the region of Wachau
[[VAH-cow]]. The Perpetual Diet of Regensburg governed the Holy Roman Empire from the
banks of this river starting in 1663, while some of the Ottoman Empire’s biggest battles,
including the Battle of Nicopolis and the Siege of Belgrade, were fought along this river. For
the point, what second-longest river in Europe flows through Belgrade and Vienna before
emptying into the Black Sea?

ANSWER: Danube River (or Donau; or Dunaj; or Duna; or Dunav; or Dunay)

(34) This city's Place Viger [[plahss vee-ZHEH]] was the only combined train station and
hotel in its country. One structure on this city's St. Helen’s Island is a transparent geodesic
sphere designed by Buckminster Fuller known as the Biosphere. This city's artificial Notre
Dame Island was built from rock excavated during the construction of this city's metro
system. One stadium in this city is jokingly nicknamed the "Big Owe [[O-W-E]]" as it took 30
years to pay off its construction costs. For the point, name this Canadian city that hosted Expo
67 and the 1976 Summer Olympics.

ANSWER: Montreal

(35) One of this river's tributaries, the Roe River, is arguably the shortest river in the
United States, flowing for only 200 feet from its source near Great Falls. Dams along this river
include Oahe [[oh-AH-hee]], Garrison, and Fort Peck. Highways 1804 and 1806, named for
the years of the Lewis and Clark Expedition, parallel this river as it winds through Bismarck
and Pierre [[PEER]]. The Platte is a tributary of, for the point, what river which meets the
Mississippi in St. Louis?

ANSWER: Missouri River



Extra Questions
(1)      This city's "wave organ" is played by water from the Pacific Ocean entering its pipes.
The Palace of Fine Arts is in this city's Marina District, which was heavily damaged in a 1989
earthquake and is bordered by Van Ness Avenue and the Presidio. Other neighborhoods in
this city include Russian Hill, home to the steep turns of Lombard Street, and Haight [[HAYT]]-
Ashbury, the site of the "Summer of Love." The oldest Chinatown in the United States is in, for
the point, what California city?

ANSWER: San Francisco
