2021-22 HS National Geography Bee                                              Geography Semifinals



Geography Semifinals
Regulation Tossups
(1)     The least populated county with this name in the U.S. has its seat at Paoli
[[pay-OH-lee]], and that county with this name is found in Indiana. One county with
this name in New York contains the village of Kiryas Joel, which is home to a large
Hasidic Jewish community. A Virginia county with this name contains (+) Montpelier,
the estate of James Madison. Another county with this name was named after the last
(*) Stadtholder of the Dutch Republic and contains the college town of Chapel Hill. For the
points, the cities of San Clemente, California and Orlando, Florida are both located in
counties with what colorful name?

ANSWER: Orange County

(2)     This city contains the Alem Cultural and Entertainment Center, which is home
to the world's largest enclosed Ferris Wheel. This city was largely leveled in a 1948
earthquake, and its Independence Park contains a statue depicting the opening of a
(+) book called the Ruhmana. This city also contains a golden statue of its country's
first president on top of a tripod tower called the Neutrality (*) Monument. For the
points, name this city that was rebuilt as part of Saparmurat Niyazov’s "White City" plan, the
capital of Turkmenistan.

ANSWER: Ashgabat

(3)     One side dish created in this U.S. state is similar to poutine and is known as
"disco fries." One form of hot dog originating in this state is deep fried until the casing
tears, and that type of hot dog is called a "ripper." One processed meat product from
this state is either called (+) "pork roll" by southern residents or "Taylor Ham" by
northern residents, and this state is similarly divided over the terms (*) "sub" and
"hoagie." Food companies such as Goya and Campbell's are headquartered in Secaucus and
Camden in this state. For the points, name this U.S. state where saltwater taffy was invented
in Atlantic City.

ANSWER: New Jersey
2021-22 HS National Geography Bee                                            Geography Semifinals


(4)     Kitfo is a traditional dish from this country's Gurage [[goo-RAH-gay]] people
that consists of marinated raw beef and niter kibbeh, a type of seasoned, clarified
butter. Doro (+) wat is a chicken stew from this country that is seasoned with a
berbere [[behr-BEH-reh]] spice blend. Those Wat stews served in this country are
usually eaten with the aid of a grey sourdough bread called (*) injera. For the points,
identify this African country, the birthplace of coffee and the largest landlocked nation in
the world.

ANSWER: Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (or Ityop'iya Federalawi
Demokrasiyawi Ripeblik)

(5)    This city's May Fourth Square contains a large red sculpture of the May Wind
as well as the Romanesque revival St. Michael's Cathedral. This city is the
headquarters of its country's Northern Fleet, and this city also hosted the sailing
events for the (+) 2008 Summer Olympics. One brewery named for this city that
overlooks Jiaozhou [[JAO-ZHOH]] Bay was founded by German settlers who
controlled this city from 1898 to 1914. (*) For the points, name this city on the Shandong
Peninsula and the Yellow Sea, a Chinese city formerly known as Tsingtao [[SING-TAO]].

ANSWER: Qingdao [[CHING-DAO]] (accept Tsingtao before mentioned)

(6)     One of these things, legendarily created for Prince Metternich, is notable for
its use of apricot jam, and another of these things from Austria is traditionally topped
with a lattice pattern and named after the city of Linz. One of these things named
after a Hungarian prince contains (+) almond meringue, while a notable German
variety of these items traditionally contains kirschwasser [[KEERSH-vah-suh]] and
maraschino (*) cherries and is named after the Black Forest. For the points, name these
types of cakes that are traditionally associated with Central Europe and come in Sacher
[[SAH-kehr]]and Esterházy types.

ANSWER: Tortes (accept Sachertorte; accept Esterházy Torte; accept Linzertorte; accept
Cake before mentioned; prompt on less specific answers)

(7)     Museums in this city include Monte Cristo Cottage, the childhood home of
Eugene O'Neill. Fishers Island, which belongs to New York, is only accessible by an
interstate ferry from this city. In 2005, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of this city's
plan to redevelop Fort Trumbull (+) using eminent domain, following a lawsuit led by
Susette Kelo. Suburbs of this city and former whaling hub include Norwich, (*) Mystic,
and Groton [[GROT-un]], the last of which is home to a large naval submarine base. For the
points, name this Connecticut city on the Thames River, the home of the U.S. Coast Guard
Academy.

ANSWER: New London (do not accept or prompt on "London")
2021-22 HS National Geography Bee                                             Geography Semifinals


(8)       In this territory's Coronation Gulf region, Diamond Jenness studied a native
culture commonly named for the copper mined in the Rankin Inlet. Turnabout Lake
and Lake Hazen, both located on the tenth-largest island in the world, are part of this
territory. This territory was populated some (+) 2,800 years ago by the Dorset
culture and is today associated with the Norse region known as Helluland. First
written about by Martin Frobisher (*) while attempting to find the Northwest Passage,
this is, for the points, what northernmost territory of Canada?

ANSWER: Nunavut

(9)     A major north-south highway in this country runs parallel to Haulover Creek
in this country's most populous city. That highway is named for Philip Goldson, an
activist who helped found both of this country's major political parties, the PUP and
the UDP. The New River, (+) the longest river entirely within this country, runs
through Orange Walk Town and empties into Chetumal Bay. This country shares its
border with Quintana (*) Roo, Petén, and Izabal, which are divisions of Guatemala and
Mexico. For the points, name this only country in Central America with English as an official
language.

ANSWER: Belize

(10) This structure began in the Shan State at Lashio, and the Battle of Kohima was
initiated to halt the expansion of this structure. Crossing its only international
boundary at Wanting [[WAHN-TING]], a northwestern expansion of this structure
called the Ledo Road began in Assam (+) and crossed the Chindwin River. Completed
in 1938, this structure traverse both the Salween and Irrawaddy Rivers, and the U.S.
Flying Tigers defended this structure as it was (*) used by the Allies to support China.
For the points, name this road which linked China with the country now known as
Myanmar.

ANSWER: Burma Road

(11) This island contains "The Egg," an avant-garde sculpture that holds a
miniature version of the Santa Maria, and the original Café del Mar, both of which are
found in this island’s town of Sant Antoni de Portmany. This island’s inhabitants
speak Eivissenc [[EE-vee-senk]], (+) a dialect of Catalan, along with residents of the
other Pine Island, Formentera. (*) For the points, name this Spanish island in the
Mediterranean known for its tourism and nightlife, the third-largest of the Balearic Islands
after Majorca and Minorca.

ANSWER: Ibiza
2021-22 HS National Geography Bee                                              Geography Semifinals


(12) The New Valley Project was a failed effort to use water from this lake and the
nearby Toshka Lakes to irrigate parts of the Western Desert. The former city of
Buhen is submerged under this lake, whose water levels are threatened by the (+)
Renaissance Dam. The Great Temple of Ramses II at Abu (*) Simbel was relocated prior
to the formation of this lake that is named for the leader of the Egyptian Revolution of 1952.
For the points, name this lake formed by the Aswan High Dam on the Nile River.

ANSWER: Lake Nasser

(13) This plateau has the largest natural supply of sodium nitrate in the world. This
strip of land's El Tatio is the world's third-largest geyser field and the largest in the
southern hemisphere. In 2010, this region was the site of the Copiapó (+) mining
accident, which trapped 33 copper miners for over 90 days. The city of (*) Antofagasta
was built in this desert, which was targeted during the War of the Pacific. For the points,
name this desert in Northern Chile that is considered the driest in the world.

ANSWER: Atacama Desert (or Desierto de Atacama)

(14) This island’s Stevns [[STEV-ens]] Klint, a white chalk cliff, has been a site of
extensive fossil discovery and has been designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
This island contains the Viking fortress of Trelleborg, the remains of a 10th-century
castle constructed by King Harald (+) Bluetooth. Nyhavn and the Tivoli Gardens are
tourist sites on this island located between the (*) Kattegat and the Baltic Sea and
separated from Sweden by the Øresund. For the points, what Danish island includes
Copenhagen?

ANSWER: Zealand (or Sjælland [[SHEH-lahnd]]; accept phonetic pronunciations)

(15) This city's Churin group, which runs its largest department store,
manufactures rye-like dalieba [[dah-lee-EH-bah] bread. This city is located on the
Songnen Plain on the Songhua [[SOHNG-WAH]] River, the longest tributary of the (+)
Amur. This city's Saint Sofia Cathedral was established during the Russian
construction of the Chinese Eastern Railroad, and this city later served as the capital
of Japanese (*) Manchukuo. The largest snow and ice festival in the world is held in, for the
points, what capital city of China’s Heilongjiang [[HAY-LOHNG-JAHNG]] province?

ANSWER: Harbin (or Halbin)
2021-22 HS National Geography Bee                                              Geography Semifinals


(16) The Ivano Dobona is a historic alpine route through this range that also
includes the peak of Monte Cristallo. This mountain range's Sexten section contains a
UNESCO World Heritage Site called the Three Peaks of Lavaredo. Marmolado is the
(+) highest peak in this range that also contains Monte Civetta [[chee-VEH-tah]]. Like
the attached Southern (*) Limestone Alps, this range is named for a type of carbonate
rock. For the points, identify this mountain range of Northeastern Italy

ANSWER: Dolomites (or Dolomite Mountains; or Dolomite Alps; or Dolomitic Mountains;
or Dolomitic Alps; or Dolomiti)

(17) A pilgrimage on this island traces the locations of 88 temples established by
the founder of Shingon Buddhism, the monk Kūkai, and usually ends at Mount Kōya.
This island's Ashizuri-Uwakai National Park is named for its southernmost point,
Cape Ashizuri, while its Mount (+) Katsuyama is home to Matsuyama Castle, which
shares its name with this island's most populous city. The Great Seto Bridge connects
this island across the (*) Inland Sea to Honshu, and this island is linked by ferry to Kyushu.
For the points, name this smallest of the four main islands of Japan.

ANSWER: Shikoku

(18) 400 types of roses can be found in this city's Reinisch Rose Garden, and this
city's Combat Air Museum can be found at its primary airport, which was once known
as Forbes Field. The Cedar Crest mansion can be found in this seat of Shawnee (+)
County that is home to the neighborhood of Westboro, as well as a certain
government institution that was the subject of a landmark 1954 Supreme (*) Court
Case. This state capital, located between Lawrence and Manhattan, contains Jayhawk
Tower. For the points, name this capital of Kansas.

ANSWER: Topeka (accept Topeka Regional Airport; accept Brown v. Board of Education of
Topeka)

(19) The Naltar Valley lies within this mountain range that contains a particularly
remote mountain known as Hidden Peak. Numerous peaks in this mountain range
are referred to as Gasherbrum, and this range contains a mountain that is home to a
notorious section called the Bottleneck. (+) With a name roughly translating to "Black
Gravel," this mountain range is home to the city of Gilgit, as well as the second-largest
glacier on Earth, the (*) Siachen [[see-AH-chen]]. Mount Godwin-Austen is an alternative
name of a 28,250 foot peak in, for the points, what Asian mountain range that contains K2?

ANSWER: Karakoram
2021-22 HS National Geography Bee                                          Geography Semifinals


(20) Residents of this archipelago's island of Nordstrandischmoor [[nord-
STRAHND-ish-moor]] use private rail cars to access the mainland town of
Lüttmoorsiel [[LOOT-mohr-zeel]]. Texel [[TESH-ull]] is the most populous island of
this archipelago, which forms an arc south and east of (+) Heligoland. The languages
spoken on this island group are the closest-living relatives to modern English and are
also similar to Low Saxon and (*) Dutch. The Wadden [[VAH-den]] Sea is separated from
the North Sea by, for the points, what island group of Denmark, Germany, and the
Netherlands?

ANSWER: Frisian Islands (accept Wadden Sea Islands before mentioned)

(21) A county of this name is home to an army outpost called Fort Carson, which is
the county's largest employer. The Franklin Mountains extend north from a city of
this name that contains a historic landmark claiming to be the oldest continuously
cultivated plot in the U.S. A county of this name is home to the Air (+) Force Academy
and is the most-populous county in Colorado, largely because it contains Colorado
Springs. The Ysleta Mission can be found in a city of this name which, after San
Antonio, is the most populous majority (*) Hispanic city in the U.S. For the points, give
this name of a major Texas city on the Rio Grande.

ANSWER: El Paso (accept El Paso County)

(22) This city’s “red” nickname originates from its tiled rooftops and porticoes,
now protected as a World Heritage Site, while its other medieval sites include the
unfinished San Petronio Basilica and the leaning Asinelli and Garisenda Towers. The
headquarters of Ducati and (+) Lamborghini are located in this city where ragù sauce
is typically served with tagliatelle [[TAU-lee-uh-TELL-ee]] and not the similar (*)
spaghetti noodle. For the points, what capital of the Italian region of Emilia-Romagna is
home to the oldest university in Europe and names a meat-based tomato sauce?

ANSWER: Bologna

(23) This city's Heroes National Stadium was named in honor of its country's 1993
national football team, whose members were killed in a plane crash. Cairo Road is the
main thoroughfare in this city that is the namesake of a province in which the Kafue
tributary of the Zambezi (+) originates. Found 225 miles away from its country's city
of Kitwe, this city offers numerous bus routes to the Copperbelt Province. Once the
capital of Northern (*) Rhodesia, this is, for the points, what capital city of Zambia?

ANSWER: Lusaka (accept Mwalusaka)
2021-22 HS National Geography Bee                                            Geography Semifinals


(24) A lagoon that shares its name with this river is the destination of a canal
supporting the port of Elblag. The Narew and the Bug are two tributaries of this river,
which was connected by the Augstow Canal to the (+) Dnieper River in modern-day
Belarus. This river's source is near the Czech and Slovakian borders in the (*) Silesian
Beskids, and this river empties into the Gulf of Gdansk, which is part of the Baltic Sea.
Krakow and Warsaw are on the banks of, for the points, what longest river of Poland?

ANSWER: Vistula River (or Wisła [[VEES-wah]])

(25) The Mbera refugee camp is in this country’s populous southeastern Hodh Ech
Chargui [[hohd-ek-shahr-GEE]] region. Girls in this country are force-fed milk, oil,
and fat as part of its pre-marital practice of leblouh. Berbers still enslave many of this
country’s (+) Haratin ethnic group based on a historic caste system, though it was
officially abolished prior to a coup by Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz. The (*) Senegal River
forms the southern border of, for the points, what Saharan country with capital Nouakchott
[[NWAHK-shot]]?

ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Mauritania (or Al Jumhuriyah al Islamiyah al Muritaniyah)

(26) This state's Autódromo [[ao-TOH-droh-moh]] Miguel E. Abed hosts the 24
Hours of Mexico race each year. A traditional dress known as the Saemi San is often
worn in this state, which is also home to the Chapel of the Virgen del Rosario and the
Great Pyramid of (+) Cholula. A popular type of mole [[MOH-lay]] originated in this
state, which is home to, and shares its name with, Mexico's fourth-largest city. An
1862 defeat for the (*) French in this state gave rise to a popular annual celebration. For
the points, name this Mexican state, the namesake battle of which served as the origin of
Cinco de Mayo.

ANSWER: Free and Sovereign State of Puebla (accept Estado Libre y Soberano de Puebla;
accept Tlahtohcayotl Puebla; accept Battle of Puebla or Batalla de Puebla)

(27) Along with his wife, Panapasa Balekana won a competition to write the
national anthem of this country. Rennell and Bellona are among the nine provinces of
this country whose flag consists of a green triangle on the right that is separated from
a blue region containing five white stars. (+) Savo is an island that is part of this
country whose main island contains Henderson Field, and this country saw action
during World War Two as the site of the Battle of (*) Guadalcanal. For the points, name
this island country with capital at Honiara that is named for a biblical king.

ANSWER: Solomon Islands
2021-22 HS National Geography Bee                                            Geography Semifinals


(28) The privateer Louis-Michel Aury [[oh-REE]] was inspired by the design of this
national flag when designing one for a set of "United Provinces" of Central America.
This flag was designated the national flag of its country by the Congress of Tucumán,
and it was designed by the Libertadore (+) Manuel Belgrano. The country this flag
represents is the larger of the two countries whose central design depicts the Sun of
May, and a triband design makes up this flag with two horizontal light blue (*) stripes
separated by a white stripe. For the points, identify this country that contains Cordoba and
Buenos Aires.

ANSWER: Argentina (or Argentine Republic; or Republica Argentina)

(29) A leadership crisis in a separatist region of this official country began after
Samuel Ikome Sako dismissed Julius Ayuk Tabe, who had been kidnapped in Nigeria.
This country's Northwest Region and Southwest Region are partly governed by the
unrecognized state of (+) Ambazonia, whose capital of Buea [[BWEH-ah]] is near the
Gulf of Guinea. The (*) Anglophone Crisis threatened the security of the 2022 African Cup
of Nations in, for the points, what country east of Nigeria with its capital at Yaoundé?

ANSWER: Republic of Cameroon (or Republique du Cameroun)

(30) The first of these commercial locations in the U.S. opened in Carlsbad,
California, and another American example of these locations sits on the former site of
Cypress Gardens in Winter Haven, Florida. These locations are operated by Merlin
Entertainments and have subsections such as (+) Miniland and Duploland. The first of
these locations opened in Billund [[BEE-lohnd]], the home of the (*) product for which
these locations are named. For the points, name this chain of theme parks centered around
a Danish building block toy brand.

ANSWER: Legolands (accept Legoland California Resort; accept Legoland Florida Resort;
accept Legoland Billilund Resort; prompt on "Lego")

(31) A 1996 fashion shoot conducted by Vogue at one of these locations so offended
the local populace that severe restrictions were placed on who could enter in the
future. A laser tops one of these locations in Casablanca, while one of these locations
made of a (+) mudbrick material called banco can be found in Djenné in Mali. Niches
called (*) mihrab can be found at these locations where a qibla indicates the direction of a
certain holy city. For the points, name these religious buildings of Islam.

ANSWER: Mosques (accept Masjid; accept Great Mosque of Djenné; accept Hassan II
[[SECOND]] Mosque)
2021-22 HS National Geography Bee                                            Geography Semifinals


(32) The first leader of this organization was Washington Post chairman Eugene
Meyer. A set of reports and research made publicly available by this organization is
called the Open Knowledge Repository. The Clean Air Initiative is overseen by the 25
executive directors of this organization, (+) which was created in 1944 at the Bretton
Woods conference alongside the (*) IMF. In 1947, France was the first beneficiary of a
loan from, for the points, what organization that provides grants and economic assistance to
various countries?

ANSWER: The World Bank

(33) The beginning of particularly intense periods of this phenomenon occur when
its central feature traverses the Gulf of Gabes [[GAH-behss]]. This phenomenon is
responsible for a colorful form of precipitation locally referred to as "Blood Rain."
Along with the bora, this phenomenon contributes to the (+) Acqua alta, an
occurrence in which tides rise in Veneto. This phenomenon that affects Southern
Europe and (*) North Africa is caused by the mixing of hot and cold air that subsequently
moves across the Mediterranean. For the points, name this seasonal wind originating in the
Sahara.

ANSWER: Sirocco (accept Scirocco; accept Ghibli; accept Siroc; accept Leste; accept Jugo)

(34) Located in the Futian [[FOO-TYAHN]] Central Business District, this city's
Lianhuashan [[LYAHN-HWAH-SHAHN]] Park contains a statue of a politician who
conducted a 1992 secret "Southern tour." This city's Ping An Finance Center contains
the world's highest (+) observation deck on a building, and major companies
headquartered in this city include BYD, Tencent, and Huawei. Under Deng Xiopeng,
this city became China's first (*) SEZ or "special economic zone." For the points, name this
fourth-most populous city in China, a major technological and manufacturing center on the
Pearl River Delta.

ANSWER: Shenzhen (or Sham Chun)

(35) This state is home to the Woodie Woodie manganese mine, one of its country's
iron ore mines, and the Argyle Diamond Mine, the largest diamond producer in the
world. Gold rushes in this state included discoveries in Halls Creek in 1885 and near
(+) Kalgoorlie in 1893. The Pilbara is a remote region in this state, which is also home
to the Great Sandy Desert and (*) Shark Bay. The port of Fremantle is at the mouth of the
Swan River in, for the points, what Australian state with its capital at Perth?

ANSWER: Western Australia
2021-22 HS National Geography Bee                                                 Geography Semifinals


Extra Questions
(1)     The explorer Samuel Baker was the first known European to visit this lake
that receives the Semliki River. This lake is separated from Lake Kyoga by the
Murchison Falls, and the Rwenzori Mountains run through a rift named for this lake.
A portion of the White Nile (+) that passes toward the South Sudan border is named
for this lake that was formerly named after Mobutu (*) Sese Seko. For the points, name
this African lake found on the border of the DRC and Uganda, named for the consort of
Queen Victoria.

ANSWER: Lake Albert (accept Lake Mobutu Sese Seko before mentioned; accept Lake
Mwitanzige)

(2)     This national park's Lava Point is the head of the scenic "top-down" West Rim
Trail that is popular among hikers in this national park. The Virgin River flows
through this national park that is located near Springsdale. Navajo Sandstone (+)
comprises a prominent feature in this national park that is also home to sites such as
Angels Landing. A namesake canyon (*) is contained within, for the points, what national
park in Utah with a name derived from Hebrew?

ANSWER: Zion National Park (accept Zion Canyon; accept Little Zion)

(3)     The back of this structure asks viewers to "DRIVE CAREFULLY" and "Come
Back Soon." This attraction that lies across from the Bali Hai Golf Club is located in
the unincorporated area of Paradise, (+) rather than the city it mentions. The Clark
County Commission administers this attraction which features letters within silver
(*) dollars. Found south of the Strip, this is, for the points, what iconic sign that advertises a
Nevada city known for its casinos?

ANSWER: Welcome to Fabulous Las Vegas Sign (prompt on "Las Vegas Sign"; accept
Welcome to Las Vegas Sign)
