2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV           Round 1



Geography Bee Round 1
Regulation Tossups
(1)     This archipelago is home to the Onge and Jarawa people, and many of this region's
tribes worship the creator god Puluga, who lives on its highest point, Saddle Peak. The Ten
Degree Channel defines the southern reach of this island group, home to one of the least-
contacted tribes in the world, the Sentinelese. Paired as one of the Union Territories of India
with the nearby Nicobar Islands, for the point, what is this group of islands which is part of
the boundary between a namesake sea and the Bay of Bengal?

ANSWER: Andaman Islands (accept Andaman Sea; accept Andaman and Nicobar Islands)

(2)      It's not in England, but this city’s timber circle of Woodhenge, salvaged by
archeologist Dr. Warren Wittry in the 1960s, is theorized to have functioned as a solar
calendar. Several important sites of this city were connected by the raised Rattlesnake
Causeway, which passed south of its Grand Plaza. This city's pyramid-shaped Monks Mound
is the largest man-made earthen structure in North America, and its population was similar
to London's during its 1000 to 1200 CE peak. For the point, name this center of Mississippian
culture in modern-day Illinois.

ANSWER: Cahokia (accept Cahokia Woodhenge; accept Cahokia Mounds State Historic
Site)

(3)     Attacks by a set of bombers along this river have led one of its bridges to be known as
its namesake "Broken Bridge." The source of this river, Heaven Lake, can be found within the
Changbai Mountains. Along with the Tumen River, one country's northern border is shaped
by this river, one shore of which lies in the city of Dandong in Liaoning Province. Sometimes
referred to as the Amrok, this river was once the site of a zone of heavy aerial combat known
as MiG Alley. For the point, identify this river that empties into the Yellow Sea and divides
China and North Korea.

ANSWER: Yalu River (accept Amrok River before mentioned; accept Amnok River; accept
Yalu River Broken Bridge)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV            Round 1


(4)       One town in this region was a hub for the production of saffron and lends its name to
the flower from which saffron is derived. That city, Crokus, was found in this region's
subregion of Kozani. The Chalkidiki (kal-KID-ik-kee) Peninsula, which is home to the
monastic community on Mount Athos, can be found within this region whose flag depicts the
Vergina Sun against a blue background. Containing Thessaloniki and the tomb of Philip II, this
is, for the point, what Greek region that is not to be confused with a country containing Skopje
[[SKOHP-yee]]?

ANSWER: Greek Macedonia (accept Makedonia Ksakousti; accept Famous Macedonia;
accept Kozani before mentioned; accept Western Macedonia or Ditikí Makedonía before
"2.3 million inhabit this region" is fully read and anti-prompt after; do not accept or prompt
on "North Macedonia")

(5)     The Ouakam [[WAY-kahm]] suburb in this country contains a 49-meter tall statue
built by the North Korean Mansudae [[MAN-soo-day] company. This country, which contains
the African Renaissance Monument, was part of a brief federation with Mali in 1960, and this
country's capital names an annual day-long motorsport event that hasn't been held in this
country since 2007. Historical sites in this country include the Door of No Return, located in
the House of Slaves on this country's Gorée [[goh-REH]] Island. For the point, name this West
African country that nearly surrounds The Gambia and is governed from Dakar.

ANSWER: Republic of Senegal (or Republique du Senegal)

(6)     Baarle-Hertog and Voeren [[VOO-run]] are exclaves belonging to this portion of a
European country, and its city of Leuven [[LUR-vun]], the capital of Brabant, is home to the
headquarters of Anheuser-Busch InBev. Wool-weaving drove the medieval commerce of this
region's cities of Ghent and Bruges [[BROOZH]], while its port of Antwerp is a contemporary
center of the diamond industry. For the point, name this Dutch-speaking region in the
northwest of Belgium, contrasted with French-speaking Wallonia.

ANSWER: Flanders (or Vlaanderen; or Flemish Community; or Flemish Region)

(7)     This river's two main tributaries bound a non-Asian region known as Mesopotamia
to the east and west. Those tributaries originate in the provinces of Espirito Santo and Mato
Grosso do Sul in Brazil, though this river begins in a country formerly known as this river's
"United Provinces" in the Paraná Delta. Montevideo is separated from Argentina by this so-
called river formed in part by the Uruguay. For the point, name this "River of Silver" in
Southeastern South America.

ANSWER: Río de la Plata (accept River Plate; do not accept or prompt on "Uruguay River"
or "Paraguay River" or "Parana River")
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV               Round 1


(8)      In 1874, Henry W. Stuckle became the first man to complete a recorded ascent of this
mountain as part of the Hayden Survey. The Black Cloud Trail is considered among the most
difficult main routes to climb this mountain, which is taller than the neighboring peak, Mount
Massive. Found in the San Isabel National Forest, this mountain peak near the city of Leadville
is the highest peak in the Sawatch Range. The second-tallest mountain in the contiguous U.S.
after Mount Whitney, this is, for the point, what tallest peak in Colorado and the Rocky
Mountains?

ANSWER: Mount Elbert

(9)     Visitors can exit a portion of this complex through the Walk of the Oleanders, which
is southeast of its High Gardens. The Hall of Ambassadors can be found in this place
containing a summer residence called the Generalife [[heh-neh-rah-LEE-feh]]. A visit to this
location inspired a set of namesake "Tales" written by Washington Irving. The words "There
is no conqueror but God" are written in calligraphy in this location as they represent the
Nasrid motto. The Alcabaza is part of this complex, and courtyards with fountains exemplify
its Moorish architecture. For the point, name this palace complex in Granada, Spain.

ANSWER: Alhambra (accept Tales of the Alhambra; accept Al-Ḥamrāʾ; prompt on "The
Red One")

(10) This lake's former Vozrozhdeniya [[vahz-ruzh-DEN-yah]] Island, now joined to the
mainland, once housed a Soviet smallpox lab. The northern reaches of this lake have been
preserved through the construction of Dike Kokaral, while its southern regions, located in
Uzbekistan, have been left to degrade. This lake, once fed by the Amu Darya river, suffered
after cotton farming diverted much of its water for irrigation. For the point, name this lake in
Central Asia that has mostly dried up.

ANSWER: Aral Sea

(11) Souq Waqif, this city’s largest and oldest marketplace, was initially a gathering place
for the Bedouin and now houses the Al Rayyan theatre, which shares its name with a nearby
city. This city’s West Bay district contains nine of its ten tallest buildings, including the Empire
State Building-inspired Al-Asmakh Tower, while this city's Aspire Zone is home to the Khalifa
International Stadium. Hamad International Airport serves this city, a major center of
pearling and also home to the headquarters of Al Jazeera. For the point, name this capital of
Qatar.

ANSWER: Doha (accept ad-Dawḥa)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV            Round 1


(12) The Ulcinj Salina [[UHL-sinj SAH-lee-nah]] saltpan in this country is an important area
for wetland biodiversity, providing a home for more than 250 species of birds including
hundreds of flamingoes. This country’s parliament selected “Oh, Bright Dawn of May” as its
national anthem in 2004, to separate it further politically from Serbia. For the point, name
this Balkan country on the Adriatic Sea whose name can be translated into English as “black
mountain.”

ANSWER: Montenegro (or Crna Gora)

(13) This city contains two large artificial lakes formed by the Alster River. This city's
Kontorhaus District became a World Heritage Site in 2015 alongside its Speicherstadt
[[SHPY-kur-shtaht]], the largest timber-pile warehouse district in the world. Berenberg Bank
and the magazine Der Spiegel [[SHPEE-guhl]] are based in this city, whose former mayors
include Olaf Scholz, the current German chancellor. The third-largest port in Europe is, for
the point, what city at the mouth of the Elbe River, the second-most populous in Germany?

ANSWER: Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg

(14) A region of this mountain range that somewhat resembles a steppe is known as the
Hautes [["oat"]] Plaines. Part of the film Babel was filmed in this range's village of Tazarine.
The province of Tiaret partly contains this mountain range in which the Ourika River rises.
The Draa Valley can be found in this mountain range that contains such peaks as Ouarzazate
[[wahr-zeh-ZAHT]] and Mount Toubkal, and a species of macaque native to this range is
sometimes known as the Barbary ape. Large Berber populations inhabit, for the point, what
mountain range that spans the Maghreb in North Africa?

ANSWER: Atlas Mountains (accept Jibāl al-ʾaṭlas)

(15) This body of water's port of Kronstadt is on Kotlin Island. The eastern end of the Nord
Stream natural gas pipeline enters this body of water near the city of Vyborg, which is
connected to Lake Saimaa by canal. The Hanko Peninsula defines the northwestern end of
this body of water, while its eastern border includes the Karelian Isthmus, which separates it
from Lake Ladoga. The Neva River empties into, for the point, what arm of the Baltic Sea
whose ports include Tallinn, St. Petersburg, and Helsinki?

ANSWER: Gulf of Finland (or Suomenlahti; or Soome laht; or Finskiy zaliv)

(16) This country's nine provinces each elect a premier, each of whom joins nine regional
delegates in this country's National Council of Provinces. This country's city of Tshwane is
governed by the Democratic Alliance, though that party does not control Tshwane's Gauteng
Province. This country's National Assembly includes representatives from Pieter
Groenewald's Freedom Front Plus party, though it has long been dominated by the African
National Congress. For the point, name this country whose modern democracy was founded
by Nelson Mandela.

ANSWER: Republic of South Africa (accept RSA)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV           Round 1


(17) Since 1999, this place has contained a reconstructed Brachiosaurus skeleton that was
formerly displayed at the Field Museum. A slow-tempo version of Rhapsody in Blue is played
in one tunnel at this place which contains a neon light installation designed by Michael
Hayden. Part of this site is in DuPage County, while the rest belongs to the more populous
Cook County. This site was previously known as Orchard Field and serves as a major hub for
both American and United Airlines. For the point, name this primary airport of Chicago.

ANSWER: O'Hare International Airport (or ORD; accept Chicago O'Hare; prompt on
"Chicago")

(18) The highest waterfall in this country is Bambarakanda Falls, which is formed by the
Kuda Oya, a tributary of the Walawe River in the Uva Province. Tea production is crucial to
this country's Central Province, which includes the city of Nuwara Eliya. The Mahaweli is the
longest river of this country, whose Mannar Island forms the eastern end of Adam's Bridge in
the Palk Strait, south of the Bay of Bengal. Formerly known as Ceylon, for the point, name this
island country whose executive and judicial seats are found in Colombo.

ANSWER: Sri Lanka (or Ilaṅkai; accept Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka; or Śrī
Laṅkā Prajātāntrika Samājavādī Janarajaya; or Ilaṅkai Jaṉanāyaka Sōsalisak Kuṭiyarasu)

(19) This nation's fishing industry is centered on the Port of Skagen, in the northernmost
part of this country. The city of Roskilde hosts a major music festival in this country and is
located on this country's island of Zealand. The Faroe Islands are administered by this
country whose capital is located across the Øresund Bridge from Malmö, Sweden. Jutland
[[JUT-lund]] is a peninsula of, for the point, what European country that governs Greenland?

ANSWER: Kingdom of Denmark (or Kongeriget Danmark)

(20) The region of Fezzan is located in the south of this country that shares a feature
translating as the "Great Barrier" with its eastern neighbor. It's not Oman, but a region known
as Jebel Akhdar can be found in the east of this country whose highest point of Bikku Bitti is
found in the Tibesti Mountains. The Gulf of Sidra and a large, namesake desert are located in,
for the point, what North African country that contains the cities of Benghazi and Tripoli?

ANSWER: State of Libya (accept Dawlat Lībiyā; accept Libyan Desert)

(21) In 1994, this region was changed from a National Monument to a National Park, and
was simultaneously expanded to include Eureka Valley and Saline Valley. When the National
Monument was created in this region in 1933, its indigenous Timbisha Shoshone were
displaced and relocated to a village that was built for them near this region's Furnace Creek.
An ultramarathon ending at Mount Whitney starts in this region's Badwater Basin. For the
point, name this region of the northern Mojave which contains the lowest point in North
America.

ANSWER: Death Valley (or Death Valley National Park; accept Death Valley National
Monument)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV           Round 1


(22) In this region, Ngöndro [[nn-GOHN-droh]] is a preparational exercise for tantric
practices also known as the "secret mantra." This region's Rimé movement seeks to unify its
Nyingma, Kagyu, Sakya, and Gelug schools, the last of which is nominally led by the Ganden
Tripa. This region's Yellow Hat Buddhist sect was historically led from Potala Palace
according to a title first awarded to Gendun Gyatso. For the point, Dharamshala, India is now
the residence of the Dalai Lama, the spiritual leader of what high-altitude region of China?

ANSWER: Tibet (or Xīzàng)

(23) The oldest continuously-operating university in the Americas is in this city, which is
home to the uniquely-shaped Park of the Reserve. The National University of San Marcos can
be found in this city, which held the Pan American Games in 2019. The La Marina Lighthouse
is an often-visited location in this city that contains the Miraflores district. This city's
namesake Metropolitan Area is formed with the nearby port of Callao [[KAH-yow]], and this
city is thought to have derived its name from a Quechua word meaning "talker." For the point,
identify this capital of Peru.

ANSWER: Lima

(24) This country's Spanish colonial capital of Villa de la Vega was captured by the British
and renamed Spanish Town in 1655. This country's town of Oracabessa contains Goldeneye,
the estate of James Bond author Ian Flemng. This country, with the only national flag that
does not contain red, white, or blue, was subject to a 1692 earthquake that destroyed its
buccaneer town of Port Royal. For the point, name this Caribbean island country, home to
Montego Bay and known for its rocksteady, ska, and reggae culture.

ANSWER: Jamaica

(25) A series of rhyolitic events formed this country's Caldera De Coatepeque [[koh-ah-
teh-PEH-keh]]. In 2005, this country experienced eruptions at Ilamatepec [[yah-mah-TEH-
pek]], a feature also known as the Santa Ana Volcano. It's not the Canary Islands, but La Palma
is a municipality in this country that uses the colon [[koe-LOHN]] as currency. The capital of
this country contains a cathedral where Bishop Oscar Romero was buried after being
assassinated during this country's civil war. For the point, name this Central American
country, southwest of Honduras, with a capital named for the Spanish for "Holy Savior."

ANSWER: Republic of El Salvador (accept República de El Salvador)

(26) The base of this city’s Mokattam Mountains is the site of its “Garbage City,” a suburb
which is home to its Zabbaleen community, largely made up of Coptic Christians. This city’s
wealthy Zamalek district is on its Gezira Island and can be accessed by the 6th October Bridge,
which commemorates the outbreak of the Yom Kippur War. This city’s Tahrir Square was the
center of the 2011 Arab Spring. For the point, name this city on the Nile River.

ANSWER: Cairo (or al-Qāhirah)
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV           Round 1


(27) The longest greeting card ever created was made by a city in this province that is
home to Wahoosh Falls. "A Place to Stand, a Place to Grow" is the anthem of this province
whose license plates read "Yours to Discover." The tallest free-standing structure in North
America can be found in this province, which is home to its country's largest zoo in
Scarborough. Brampton and Thunder Bay are contained within, for the point, what Canadian
province served by Pearson Airport that contains the CN Tower and Toronto?

ANSWER: Ontario

(28) The five easternmost towns on this island have attempted to form Peconic County.
One of those towns, Southold, is actually located on this island's North Fork, which is in
Suffolk County along with Montauk on this island's South Fork. Theodore Roosevelt's home
of Sagamore Hill is in Oyster Bay in this island's Nassau County, while its Kings County and
Queens County are part of New York City. The Hamptons are on, for the point, what island in
New York State?

ANSWER: Long Island (prompt on "The Island")

(29) A park that attempts to protect this region shares its name with an Act of which
Section 54 calls for the publication of an Outlook Report every five years assessing its state.
Flights from Bundaberg Airport travel to Lady Elliot Island within this region, which was
extensively covered by Google's Underwater Street View feature. This region, that has been
affected by sludge dumping and bleaching, is found near Queensland in the Coral Sea. For the
point, name this extensive coral system off the coast of Australia.

ANSWER: Great Barrier Reef (accept Great Barrier Reef Marine Park)

(30) Fake corporations such as the "M.T. Lott Company'' were created to acquire land at
cheaper prices to develop this entity, whose public services are controlled by the Reedy Creek
Improvement District. Philip Johnson designed a welcome center for the town of Celebration,
which is connected to this entity by World Drive. This entity operates the most-used monorail
in the U.S. and contains the incorporated cities of Bay Lake and Lake Buena Vista. For the
point, name this complex in Central Florida that includes the theme parks of EPCOT and the
Magic Kingdom.

ANSWER: Walt Disney World Resort (accept Magic Kingdom Park, Walt Disney World
Magic Kingdom, or The Magic Kingdom before "EPCOT" is mentioned; do not accept or
prompt on "Disneyland")
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV             Round 1


(31) This U.S. state, which boasts the most golf courses per capita, is home to the island
town of Sabula, despite being landlocked. Though not California, this state is home to a
particularly crooked street inspired by the vineyards of Europe that is called Snake Alley. The
John Wayne Birthplace and Museum can be found in this state whose city of Bettendorf is one
of the Quad Cities, along with the city of Davenport. The largest producer of grain and corn of
any state, this is, for the point, what Midwestern "Hawkeye State" that contains Des Moines?

ANSWER: Iowa

(32) Spencer Butler ordered the construction of this present-day state's legislative
building, which was designed by Samuel Swinton Jacob and Heera Singh. This state's city of
Chitrakoot is the location of JRDU, the world's first university solely dedicated to teaching
disabled students. In 2000, Uttarakhand broke away from this state whose major cities
include Allahabad, Agra, Varanasi, and its capital, Lucknow. For the point, name this most
populous subnational entity in the world, the largest state in India.

ANSWER: Uttar Pradesh

(33) Joanne Daniels-Finegold was the named plaintiff in a lawsuit against this transit
system that led to the expansion of accessibility options. A light rail section of this transit's
Red Line that consists only of streetcars is called the Mattapan Trolley. Easy access to Kendall
Square and a nearby university are ensured by this transit system, whose major stops include
Park Street and South Station. CharlieCards can be used to ride this transit system that has a
stop named after Back Bay and Harvard. For the point, name this transportation system that
serves the metro area around Boston.

ANSWER: MBTA (accept Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority; accept the
Boston T; prompt on "Boston" transit system or similar answers)

(34) This body of water contains a particularly large longhouse known as the Old Man
House within its Agate Pass. Deception Path forms part of the shoreline of this body of water
that contains Bainbridge Island, and this body of water is named after a Navy lieutenant who
served under George Vancouver. This body of water that is part of the Salish Sea is connected
to the Pacific Ocean by the Strait of Juan de Fuca, and this body of water offers clear views of
Mount Rainier. Tacoma and Olympia lie along, for the point, what estuary system in
Washington state?

ANSWER: Puget Sound
2022 US National Championships - International Geography Bee - Varsity & JV           Round 1


(35) A feature within this region comprised of hexagonal arrangements of clay was
thought to have been fed by the Kunene River. Eiseb and Epukiro are among the dry riverbeds
in this region that are termed omiramba. The Groot-vloer Pan and Etosha Pan can be found
in this region whose name translates as "Dry Place" in the Khoekhoe language. Stretching
nearly one million square kilometers, this semi-arid desert contains the Okavango Delta along
the border of Angola and Namibia. For the point, name this African desert that covers most
of Botswana.

ANSWER: Kalahari Desert



Extra Questions
(1)      Horseshoe Bend is often referred to as the "East Rim" of this river and is found
roughly five miles from an an arch-gravity dam named for Glen Canyon. The two largest
artificial reservoirs in the U.S. are located along this river, and those reservoirs are Lake
Powell and Lake Mead, the latter of which helps to form the Hoover Dam. Passing through the
Grand Canyon, this is, for the point, what river that, with the Rio Grande, is one of the major
rivers of America's Southwest?

ANSWER: Colorado River (accept Rio Colorado)
