                                                    IGB PLAYOFFS: Phase 1
Tournament                                                                                     Room                                          Division
 Moderator                                                            Scorer
                                                                                                                           Round
                                                                                                                                            (circle 1)   V JV
Student names (include
                            1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Final
full name and school)
                                                                                                                                            score
INSTRUCTIONS: Place the announced score in the appropriate cell. Questions may be worth 6, 5, 4, or 3 points (if correct), -2 points (if incorrectly guessed
during the question), or -1 point (if incorrectly guessed after the question). Make sure to place scores in the column for the correct question. Keep a running total
on a separate piece of paper, updating after every question. Cross out entire column if no score change.
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                    Bee Finals Phase 1



                                 Bee Finals Phase 1
Regulation Questions

(1) In this area, the bark of juniper, gum, and cypress trees create tannic acids that preserve
the amber-colored water of Lake Drummond, which is drained by the Washington Ditch.
This area was the home of Dred from Harriet (+) Beecher Stowe’s follow-up to Uncle
Tom’s Cabin. In 1763, George Washington helped found a land speculation company to
commercialize this area north of (*) Albemarle Sound. Thousands of escaped slaves may have once
resided in permanent settlements within this swamp, which lies south of Norfolk, Virginia. For the points,
name this large swamp on the Virginia-North Carolina border.
ANSWER: Great Dismal Swamp

(2) In order to prove a crackpot theory about these structures, British author Jim
Woodmann used a reed basket and local cotton to construct a primitive hot-air balloon.
In the 1940s, German mathematician Maria Reiche (+) speculated that these structures
tracked the movements of the sun and stars. They were constructed by removing red
pebbles from the ground to (*) reveal a lighter-colored layer below. Large cloth letters reading
“Time for change! The future is renewable” were laid down next to one of these geoglyphs by Greenpeace
in a December 2014 publicity stunt, causing permanent damage. “The Condor” and “The Monkey” are
examples of, for the points, what ancient “lines” drawn in southern Peru?
ANSWER: Nazca Lines

(3) In 1553, this sea was discovered for non-locals by the English explorer Richard
Chancellor, who visited its Nikolo-Korelsky Monastery on the delta of the Northern Dvina
River. This sea names a canal that was constructed from 1931 to 1933 at the cost of nearly
20,000 (+) Gulag prisoners’ lives; the canal begins in this sea’s southwestern portion,
known as Onega Bay. After Russia gained access to the (*) Baltic in the 18th century, this sea’s
main port of Arkhangelsk decreased in importance. For the points, name this inlet of the Barents Sea in
northwest Russia, a sea named for a color.
ANSWER: White Sea

(4) In 2004, National Geographic nicknamed this country’s Loango National Park “land of
the surfing hippos.” The uranium mines of this country’s Oklo region may have once acted
as a (+) natural nuclear fission reactor. In 2002, about 10 percent of this country’s national
territory was converted into national parkland (*) without consulting its residents as a result of a
unilateral decree issued by president Omar Bongo. For the points, name this Central African country that
lies northwest of the Republic of Congo and has its capital at Libreville.
ANSWER: Gabon




                                                 Page 1
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                    Bee Finals Phase 1


(5) This arid region encompasses the northern half of the sandy Tihamah coastal plain and
contains the archaeological site of Mada’in Saleh, the site of over 100 monumental rock-cut
tombs. In 1925, a short-lived namesake kingdom in this region was conquered by forces
from the (+) inland Nejd region. To increase imperial centralization and carry pilgrims
from Damascus in the early 20th century, the Ottomans built a project through this region
that was later (*) blown up by Lawrence of Arabia. Its mountains are the site of Tai’if, the unofficial
summer capital of the Saud family. For the points, name this region of western Saudi Arabia that contains
Medina and Mecca and was once home to an 800-mile long railway.
ANSWER: Hejaz (accept Hejaz Railway)

(6) In 1911, Wilhelm Kattwinkel found evidence of a horse with three toes at this location.
OH 5 [”O” “H” “5”], or “Nutcracker Man,” was found in this location in 1959; that (+)
 find briefly confused the historical record. Findings at this site’s Beds I and II, include
other (*) Paranthropus fossils and a series of tools. For the points, name this thirty-mile-long ravine in
the Great Rift Valley where Homo habilis lived two million years ago, the subject of study by Louis and
Mary Leakey in Tanzania.
ANSWER: Oldupai Gorge (accept Olduvai Gorge; prompt on the Great Rift Valley and Tanzania before
mentioned)

(7) After getting lost on this mountain in 1939, the 12-year-old Boy Scout Donn Fendler
survived for 9 days in the wilderness, making him a nationwide sensation. The artist Marsden
Hartley dabbled in Regionalism by painting over 18 views of this mountain. It overlooks (+)
 Baxter State Park and lies north of a rugged trail area called the Hundred-Mile Wilderness.
It was named “The Greatest Mountain” by the local (*) Penobscot people. While on vacation
from Walden, Henry David Thoreau climbed to its summit, which is now the northern terminus of the
Appalachian Trail. For the points, name this highest peak in Maine.
ANSWER: Mount Katahdin

(8) This city’s historic River Street district contains many converted cotton warehouses.
This city’s Bonaventure Cemetery is the site of the Bird Girl Statue, featured on the front
cover of John Berendt’s “non-fiction novel” (+) Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil.
Juliette Gordon Low was born in a house in this city that she later converted into the first
(*) headquarters for the Girl Scouts. This seaport was jokingly described as a “Christmas present” for
Abraham Lincoln by William Tecumseh Sherman. For the points, name this port city founded by James
Oglethorpe in Georgia.
ANSWER: Savannah




                                                 Page 2
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                     Bee Finals Phase 1


(9) The design of this city focused on a citadel upon Saksaywaman Hill. This city was the
meeting point of four large roads that divided an empire into four regions. Several of its
buildings featured stone walls consisting of large (+) boulders, which were legendarily fitted
so tightly together that you couldn’t fit a sword blade between them. Forty two “ceque”
[zek-ee] lines once radiated from this city’s (*) Coricancha temple, connecting it to sacred shrines
scattered across the landscape. This former capital, designed in the shape of a puma, was expanded in the
15th century by Pachacuti. For the points, name this former Incan capital.
ANSWER: Cuzco

(10) In 1692, Ahmad Khani drew upon this people’s oral tradition to write about the lovers
Mem and Zin, in a story that is now this people’s unofficial national epic. This ethnicity’s
Gorani and (+) Sorani dialects initially emerged as literary languages. Reactionary members
of this ethnicity from the Hamidiye cavalry corps instigated the unsuccessful 1925 (*) Sheikh
Said rebellion. The 1937 renaming of Tunceli Province prompted an Alevi chieftain of this ethnicity to
lead the Dersim Rebellion. Kurmanji is a common dialect of this ethnicity, whose historical members
included Saladin. For the points, name this ethnicity whose population is divided amongst Iran, Turkey,
and Iraq.
ANSWER: Kurdish people (or Kurds)

(11) In 1855, this state’s government accidentally issued the blue “inverted swan” stamp, one
of the world’s first invert errors. In the 1890s, this state’s government began construction
on the Goldfields Water Supply Scheme, a pipeline that ran to gold rush towns such as (+)
 Coolgardie. Its flag features a black swan, a reference to how Dutch explorers became the
first Europeans to ever see black swans when they traveled up this state’s (*) Swan River in
1697. Since 1907, the entirety of this state has been crossed by a 2000 mile-long “rabbit-proof fence.” For
the points, name this state with capital Perth, the largest Australian state.
ANSWER: Western Australia

(12) A city that lies on this body of water is home to a tower where a maiden legendarily
ascended from a holy fire to save the inhabitants from an enemy force. The “Contract of
the Century” was a 1994 product sharing agreement that a (+) country on this body of
water signed with 11 foreign companies. Shirvan was a historical region along this body of
water near the (*) Absheron Peninsula, which juts into this body. The first offshore oil platform in
the world was created in this body of water off the coast of Azerbaijan. For the points, name this body of
water east of the Caucasus Mountains, the largest enclosed body of water on Earth.
ANSWER: Caspian Sea




                                                  Page 3
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                    Bee Finals Phase 1


(13) Six months before his 1683 raid on Cartagena, the Dutch pirate Laurens de Graaf
sacked this city with the aid of Nicholas van Hoorn, whom De Graaf subsequently killed in
a duel after quarreling over ransoms. Frequent pirate attacks inspired this city’s folk song
(+) “La Bamba,” which was popularized by Richie Valens. This city’s fortress of San Juan
de Ulua was captured by the French during the (*) Pastry War. It was occupied by the U.S. for
6 months during the 1914 Tampico Affair, prompting the fall of Victoriano Huerta. Winfield Scott landed
troops at this port during the Mexican-American War. For the points, name this port on Mexico’s east
coast.
ANSWER: Veracruz

(14) TripAdvisor’s Top 36 things to do in this city includes a visit to Mansudae Grand
Monument, where commenters recommend you bow in front of a pair of twin bronze statues.
A mausoleum housing the body of a world leader in this city was originally built as (+)
Kumsusan Assembly Hall. The Taedong River flows through this city, which contains the
Mansu Hill Grand Monument and a large imitation of Paris’ Arc de Triomphe. The (*)
Arirang Mass Games occur in this city, which is home to the currently unfinished Ryugyong Hotel. For
the points, name this capital city of North Korea.
ANSWER: Pyongyang

(15) This peninsula’s western shore includes the popular Ruby Beach, which features
distinctive red-colored sand. “The Brothers” are a pair of prominent peaks on this
peninsula’s eastern shore. It contains the temperate Hoh (+) Rainforest and Quinault
Rainforest, the latter of which is home to the world’s largest specimen of Sitka Spruce.
Multiple rivers converge at this peninsula’s town of (*) Forks, the setting of the Twilight saga.
This peninsula’s northern shore straddles the Strait of Juan de Fuca. For the points, name this Washington
peninsula west of Puget Sound.
ANSWER: Olympic Peninsula

(16) In the early 1600s, a group of these people founded the town of San Basilio, where
a man named King Benkos declared his own royal dynasty. During the late 1600s, Zumbi
and his uncle Ganga Zumba ruled over thousands of these people in the (+) quilombo of
Palmares, a centralized kingdom on the frontier of Pernambuco. Under the leadership of
Cudjoe and (*) Nanny, another group of them fought several 18th-century wars against the British
within the rugged interior of Jamaica. For the points, name these people who founded maroon communities
throughout the colonial Americas after escaping their bondage.
ANSWER: escaped slaves (accept maroons until mentioned; accept cimarrones; prompt on “Africans”
or “black people”)




                                                 Page 4
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                     Bee Finals Phase 1


(17) A number of tanneries operate in this city’s neighborhood of Tiretta Bazaar, which
was historically the only Chinatown in its country. In the heart of this city, a marble hall
was built after Queen Victoria’s death; that (+) memorial lies on a vast public field called a
Maidan. A college of Oriental studies stands within this Indian city’s Fort (*) William, which
the British built to defend a trading factory on the Hooghly River in 1696. The British secured sovereign
rights over this city after winning the 1757 Battle of Plassey against the Nawab of Bengal. For the points,
name this port in eastern India where British prisoners were once kept in a “Black Hole.”
ANSWER: Calcutta (or Kolkata)

(18) This city’s Ebrat Museum describes police abuse prior to the rule of the current regime
in a circular former prison. In 1890, the pan-Islamic activist al-Afghani helped organize a
protest among merchants in this capital city over a (+) British tobacco concession. In 1971,
a marble-clad gateway called the Azadi Tower was built in this city to celebrate the (*)
2500-year anniversary of the founding of an empire. This city’s Golestan palace was a residence for rulers
of the Qajar Dynasty, and it lies below the Alborz Mountains, southwest of Mount Damavand. For the
points, name this capital of Iran.
ANSWER: Tehran

(19) In 2012, archaeologists on this island discovered the remains of 5,000 freed slaves
who had died in custody. A resident on this island frequently wrote letters of complaint to
governor Hudson Lowe and lived in the ramshackle Longwood House. After the failure of
(+) Bambatha’s Rebellion, the last Zulu king, Dinuzulu, was imprisoned on this island. This
island forms a British overseas territory with (*) Ascension Island and the extremely isolated
Tristan da Cunha. It was long believed that this island’s most famous resident died of arsenic poisoning.
For the points, name this South Atlantic island where Napoleon was sent on his final exile.
ANSWER: Saint Helena

(20) This country’s Motovun Forest has become an increasingly popular source of white
truffles. A series of waterfalls joins together a chain of 16 turquoise-colored, terraced lakes
within a stunning karst landscape in this country’s (+) Plitvice [plit-vit-zuh] Lakes National
Park. This country includes over 1000 islands, including the emerging party destinations of
Pag and Hvar, and it controls a majority of the (*) Istrian Peninsula. The maritime Republic of
Ragusa once had its capital at this country’s walled Dalmatian port city of Dubrovnik. For the points,
name this coastal Balkan state that lies northwest of Bosnia and has its capital at Zagreb.
ANSWER: Croatia




                                                  Page 5
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                    Bee Finals Phase 1


(21) This landmark’s entrance is flanked by two flagpoles with ornate bronze bases, which
were designed by the architect Thomas Hastings and cast by Tiffany Studios. Edward Clark
Potter sculpted two statues for this landmark; they are (+) named Patience and Fortitude
but are also popularly known as Lord Lenox and Lady Astor. This building’s iconic Rose (*)
Reading Room is nearly 300 feet long and features a 50 foot high ceiling. The entrance to this Beaux-Arts
style building faces Bryant Park, and is flanked by two iconic marble lions. For the points, name this
public institution in Midtown Manhattan.
ANSWER: New York Public Library Main Branch (or Stephen A. Schwarzman Building; accept
equivalents such as NYC Library)

(22) In 1802, rebels held off thousands of colonial troops at this modern country’s fort
of Crête-á-Pierrot, which stands in the mountains about the Artibonite River Valley. The
massive Citadelle Laferriére looks over the sprawling ruins of this non-German country’s
(+) Sans-Souci Palace. This country’s southern towns of Les Cayes and Jacmel were lost by
the mixed-race general Andre (*) Rigaud during the War of the Knives. Its northern port of Le Cap,
formerly Cap Francois, was once known as the “Paris of the Antilles.” For the points, name this Caribbean
country, founded on the ruins of the French colony of Saint-Domingue, with capital at Port-au-Prince.
ANSWER: Haiti

(23) This city is the administrative center of a region whose Yantarny mines contains 80
percent of the world’s amber reserves. Before its final disappearance, the lost Amber Room
was brought to this city by the (+) Nazis. This city was formed around the old fort of
Twangste [t’vahngst]. Like Wittenburg, this city is home to a Schlosskirche [shloss-keer-kuh],
or “Castle Church,” where it hosted the self-coronation of (*) Wilhelm I in 1861. This city is
the home base for the Russian Baltic Fleet. For the points, name this former capital of East Prussia that
is now a Russian exclave between Poland and Lithuania.
ANSWER: Kaliningrad (accept Konigsberg)

(24) After European colonists in this city popularized pasteis de nata egg tarts here in the
early 1900s, indigenous residents in the surrounding area invented a similar treat called the
dan ta. This city’s Ruins of St. Paul feature a single (+) stone facade, the only remaining
piece of a 17th century colonial church. Up to a quarter of its residents are employed by
the billionaire (*) Stanley Ho, who held a government-granted monopoly for four decades on this
city’s gambling industry, which surpassed that of Las Vegas in 2006. For the points, name this former
Portuguese territory now controlled by China.
ANSWER: Macau




                                                 Page 6
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                    Bee Finals Phase 1


(25) To its south, this river’s expansive delta is home to the extremely endangered delta
smelt fish. One of this river’s tributaries flows through the Yuba Goldfields, where erosion
from hydraulic mining caused a disastrous series of floods in the late 19th century. Its main
branch rises in the (+) Klamath Mountains to the north. The American River flows into
this river, which joins the (*) San Joaquin River within a large delta on the eastern end of San
Francisco Bay. For the points, name this river that flows through the northern half of the Central Valley
and shares its name with California’s capital.
ANSWER: Sacramento River

(26) This city’s iconic city hall consists of two brick-clad rectangular towers epitomizing the
Functionalist style. Tourists are invited to walk onto the sloping roof of this city’s opera
house, which is known for its large windows and angled, white-marble exterior. Its nearby
(+) Vigeland sculpture park contains hundreds of bizarre sculptures, including one of a
naked man fighting off a horde of (*) babies. This city’s medieval Akershus Fortress was built by
Haakon V and once imprisoned Vidkun Quisling. For the points, name this capital city of Norway.
ANSWER: Oslo

(27) At this lake, botanist H. C. Cowles pioneered the theory of ecological succession by
studying sand dunes at the world’s largest freshwater dune system. This lake’s shores are
one of the few places you can find fossilized (+) corals called Petoskey stones. On the
southern end of this lake, an electric fish barrier has been set up along the (*) Calumet River
to block further northward migration of Asian carp. The former steel mill city of Gary lies on its shore.
For the points, name this Great Lake whose southwestern shore is the site of Chicago.
ANSWER: Lake Michigan

(28) Near this city, a fumarole called the Cave of Dogs served as an old-timey tourist
attraction where travelers would suspend dogs in volcanic gas until they fell unconscious.
This city lies on the eastern edge of the volcanic Phlegraean Fields, the site of (+) Solfatara
Crater. This city’s gulf contains the island of Ischia, known for its historic hot springs. This
city also lies east of Lake (*) Avernus, a volcanic crater lake that Romans believed to be the entrance
to Hades. The Campanian volcanic arc surrounds this modern city, which sits below a volcano known for
its explosive “Plinian” eruptions. For the points, name this major coastal city that lies northwest of the
ruins of Herculaneum and Pompeii, near Mount Vesuvius.
ANSWER: Naples (or Napoli)

(29) This city was the headquarters of Loughead Company, Lockheed Martin’s predecessor.
The night before an air raid scare prompted the phantom “Battle of Los Angeles,” this
city’s Ellwood refinery was hit by a Japanese submarine; that was the (+) first time the US
mainland was attacked in World War II. Prior to Hollywood, this city served as the world’s
film capital thanks to its Flying A Studios on State Street. The Santa (*) Ynez Mountains
lie behind this coastal city, the seat of a county between Ventura and San Luis Obispo. The Isla Vista
community is near, for the points, what coastal city west of Los Angeles?
ANSWER: Santa Barbara



                                                 Page 7
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                     Bee Finals Phase 1


(30) While bombing the flagship Izumo in this city’s harbor, 2,000 people were accidentally
killed in an entertainment complex. To defend themselves in case of retreat from this city,
one side fortified its outskirts with the (+) Xicheng and Wufu Lines, which later fell in just
2 weeks of fighting. Throughout the entirety of a 1937 battle, Nationalist forces desperately
defended this city’s Sihang Warehouse, which lay across (*) Suzhou Creek from its French
and British Concessions. During World War II, thousands of Jewish refugees arrived at its International
Settlement, now known as the Bund. For the points, name this port city near the mouth of the Yangtze.
ANSWER: Shanghai

(31) In the Magic Valley, this river is crossed by the Perrine Bridge, one of the only places in
the U.S. where BASE jumping is allowed year-round without a permit. According to legend,
Coyote dug this river’s deepest canyon in a day to protect people from the Seven Devils,
who now name a nearby mountain range. (+) Craters of the Moon National Monument
preserves basalt lava flows in the fertile lands of its namesake river plain, which contains the
cities of (*) Pocatello and Twin Falls. It cuts through the 8000-feet-deep Hells Canyon. For the points,
name this major tributary of the Columbia that flows through Idaho.
ANSWER: Snake River

(32) Hundreds of canals run through this country’s remotely-located Tortuguero National
Park, a popular turtle-watching destination. The active Arenal Volcano sits in the
northwestern part of this country near its La Fortuna Waterfall. This country controls the
remote (+) Cocos Island, the inspiration for Isla Nublar in Jurassic Park. In the 1950s,
several dozen American Quakers settled in its Monteverde Cloud Forest, the only habitat
of the now-extinct (*) golden toad. Over a third of the territory in this top ecotourism destination
consists of national parks. For the points, name this Central American country that lies south of Nicaragua
and north of Panama.
ANSWER: Costa Rica

(33) When Alhazen realized the impossibility of controlling the flow of this river, he feigned
madness to escape persecution by the caliph. The island of Philae in this river was partially
(+) submerged by British engineers in the early 20th century, and another island in this
river is named for its resemblance to an (*) elephant’s tusk. The course of this river was diverted
into a defensive ditch during the last stand of Charles Gordon. For the points, name this river, whose six
cataracts posed an obstacle to navigation for the ancient Egyptians?
ANSWER: Nile River

(34) Catalan celebrations of this event feature the Tió de Nadal, an anthropomorphic log
that defecates candy. A Russian celebration of this event is paired with commemorations of
the baptism of Rus. The Swedish town of (+) Gävle celebrates this event by constructing
a large straw goat, which vandals have repeatedly burned down. German (*) street markets
spring up for this holiday, which the English commonly celebrate by serving plum and figgy puddings. For
the points, name this holiday, often marked by city squares erecting large decorated trees.
ANSWER: Christmas (Eve or Day; accept Advent before mentioned)



                                                  Page 8
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                   Bee Finals Phase 1


(35) An island in this region is home to an iconic white fleet of garlic shrimp food trucks
run by Giovanni’s. In this region, a dish consisting of pork wrapped in leaves is often served
as part of a “plate lunch,” which includes two scoops of (+) white rice and a side, usually a
scoop of macaroni salad. White rice is topped with a fried egg, a hamburger patty, and gravy
as part of a dish from this region called loco moco. Natives of these islands traditionally
cook (*) pigs wrapped in banana leaves within underground ovens built from hot rocks; the pork is then
served at a luau. For the points, name this island chain, home to a fusion of Polynesian and American
cuisines.
ANSWER: Hawaiian Islands (prompt on “Polynesia” or “Pacific (Islands)”)

Extra Questions
Only read if moderator botches a question.
(1) At a location on this body of water, the American military took in Haitian
refugees as part of Operation Sea Signal. Bowman McCalla defeated a Spanish fleet
at an 1898 battle here. The cities of Caimanera and (+) Boqueron flank this body
of water, which is the nearest inlet to a “no man’s land” filled with land mines and
a “Cactus Curtain.” A (*) prison on this body of water has been accused of violating the
Geneva Convention for prisoners captured in Afghanistan and Iraq. For the points, name this bay
that holds an American military base and detention center, despite being in Cuba.
ANSWER: Guantanamo Bay (accept Gitmo)

(2) This body of water’s Xern coastline includes the Adjara region and an important
port city of Batumi. In ancient times, this sea was referred to as the “Pontos Axenos,” or
“Inhospitable Sea,” though that name was later (+) changed to the “Pontos Euxinos,” or
“Hospitable Sea.” Like the Mediterranean, this sea may have witnessed a major flooding
event around 5600 BC that provided the inspiration for the story of (*) Noah’s ark. Its
northern shore was the site of a Roman client state known as the Bosporan Kingdom, while its southern
shore featured the historical region of Pontus. This sea lies northeast of the Bosporus. For the points,
name this sea south of Crimea.
ANSWER: Black Sea

(3) In the late 1700s, several clans of this nationality formed a semi-democratic gold miners’
republic in western Borneo. The mixed-race peranakans are descended from immigrants
of this nationality, some of whom served the (+) Dutch as tax farmers. In 1917, Rama
IV wrote a seminal piece of Thai nationalism decrying them as “The Jews of the Orient.”
Until the 20th century, immigrants of this nationality usually spoke the (*) Hokkien or Hakka
languages. Tin miners of this nationality founded Kuala Lumpur, and a majority of Singapore’s modern
population is descended from this nationality. For the points, name this nationality whose members now
mainly speak Mandarin.
ANSWER: Chinese




                                                Page 9
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                Bee Finals Phase 1


(4) This location was defended during the “Friday of Departure” by a human chain
protecting 2 million people in prayer. In this location, a statue honors a general who worked
alongside Muhammad Ali against Napoleon, Omar Makram. This location was the site of a
(+) 21st century Battle of the Camel in which Safwat al-Sharif ordered government troops
to forcibly (*) clear it out. It was targeted on National Police Day after a video blog from Asmaa
Mahfouz inspired protests in Arab Spring. For the points, name this public square where demonstrators
protested the rule of Hosni Mubarak in Cairo.
ANSWER: Tahrir Square (prompt on Cairo before mentioned; prompt on Egypt before Cairo is
mentioned)




                                              Page 10
