   International Geography Bee 2019 US National Championships
                 Varsity & Junior Varsity Divisions

                                             Round 1

1. This city was ruled in the medieval period by the Hafsid Dynasty. The Cathedral of St. Vincent De
Paul was built in this city under French colonization. Avenue Habib Bourguiba is the main street of this
city and this city’s Bardo National Museum was the subject of a terror attack in 2014. This city’s metro
contains stops in its suburb of Carthage. For the point, name this North African capital, the namesake of a
country bordered by Libya and Algeria.
ANSWER: Tunis

2. Suburban development in this city has spilled into the neighboring San Tan Valley. This city is
overlooked by Camelback Mountain and Superstition Mountain, and its metropolitan area is also known
as the Valley of the Sun. This is the largest city in the USA by population that does not have an Amtrak
stop. This city is the 5th largest by population in the USA, the largest in Maricopa County, and is located
near the confluence of the Salt and Gila Rivers. For the point, name this capital of Arizona.
ANSWER: Phoenix, Arizona

3. Groups including the Selk’nam were wiped out during a military campaign in this region supervised by
soldiers including Julius Popper. A city in this region founded by Welsh migrants, Puerto Madryn, is
located near its continent’s lowest point, the Valdes Peninsula. This region was occupied during the
Conquest of the Desert. This region incorporates provinces such as Santa Cruz and Chubut, and the
mainland portion of this region is bounded by the Straits of Magellan near Tierra del Fuego. For the point,
name this region of southern Argentina.
ANSWER: Patagonia [prompt on Argentina]

4. This landmark consists of a base, Komitake, on top of which are layered “old” and “new” portions
named for it. As well as a region named for its “five lakes”, Hakone forest is located near this landmark.
A “suicide forest”, Aokigahara, lies at the base of this landmark. “Thirty-six views” of this landmark title
an album by the ukiyo-e painter Hokusai. For the point, name this mountain widely considered a national
emblem of Japan.
ANSWER: Mt. Fuji [accept Fuji-san]


                                                                                                          1
5. A police crackdown attacked this city’s “Little Africa” district, the largest in its country, in May 2018.
This city is nicknamed “the city of the five rams” after a set of statues in one of its temples. This city’s
island of Shamian was part of a French concession in the early 20th century. Cities in a megalopolis
centered on this city include Foshan, Dongguan, and Shenzhen. This city is the center of the Pearl River
Delta megalopolis. For the point, name this largest city in Guangdong province, once known as Canton.
ANSWER: Guangzhou

6. Frederick Catherwood made a series of drawings of this region’s ancient cities in a travelogue titled for
this region. This region’s namesake state has its capital at Merida, and this region contains the state of
Quintana Roo. This region’s Chixculub Crater may have been the site of the impact that killed the
dinosaurs. The resort city of Cancun is located on this peninsula. For the point, name this peninsula in
Southern Mexico.
ANSWER: Yucatan Peninsula [prompt on answers such as Mexico, Mesoamerica]

7. The artist Cyprien Gaillard made a film about one of these objects given to the city of Cleveland after
the Berlin Olympics. An object of this type named for cotton is a national emblem of Sierra Leone. A
sacred one of these objects was miraculously kept intact in the bombing raid on Guernica. One of these
objects was used to hide a state’s constitution during the government of Sir Edmund Andros. Objects of
this type called irminsuls were worshipped in Saxon paganism. For the point, name these objects, which
include the Connecticut Charter Oak.
ANSWER: trees [accept oak trees until mention]

8. In one novel set in this city, a group of intellectuals meets in the Dum Dum Donut Shop. In another
novel set in this city, Earle Shoup leads a group of cowboys in this city and a group of Eskimos attends
Harry Greener’s funeral. This city is the setting of Paul Beatty’s The Sellout. Tod Hackett paints the
burning of this city in one novel, and Raymond Chandler’s detective Philip Marlowe works on this city’s
Cahuenga Boulevard. Michael Connelly’s crime novels are set here, including one named for its Echo
Park neighborhood. For the point, name this city where Nathanael West’s The Day of the Locust
chronicles the film industry in the Hollywood area.
ANSWER: Los Angeles [accept Hollywood, Compton]

9. This national park is split between its country’s Mara and Simiyu regions and was popularized in the
world press by a series of books written by the Grzimsek family. This national park is the center of a
larger complex that includes Arusha National Park and the Ngorongoro Conservation Area. One proposal
suggests moving this national park’s boundary to Lake Victoria. For the point, name this national park in
Tanzania that plays host to an annual wildebeest migration.
ANSWER: Serengeti National Park




                                                                                                           2
10. This country is home to the UNESCO world heritage site Sixty Dome Mosque, which was built by a
sultanate headquartered in its city of Gauda. Most emigrants from this country to Britain hail from its
Sylhet Division. Operation Searchlight was a genocidal campaign that targeted inhabitants of this modern
country. This country’s city of Cox’s Bazar has received thousands of Rohingya refugees. This country’s
Chittagong Hill Tracts are home to many Tibeto-Burman peoples. For the point, name this South Asian
country with its capital at Dhaka.
ANSWER: Bangladesh

11. One landmark in this country’s capital is built of steel balls modeled after an iron crystal. A port in
this modern country was the namesake of the Austrian Empire’s Indian trading company, the Ostend
Company. This country’s region of Eupen-Malmedy is home to its German-speaking minority. This
country’s most prestigious university is located in its city of Leuven, the capital of its Brabant province.
This country’s cities of Ypres and Ghent were medieval centers of cloth making. For the point, name this
country where Flemish and the Walloon dialect of French are spoken in the capital of Brussels.
ANSWER: Belgium

12. The film Koyaanisqatsi features a housing project in this city that was designed by Minoru Yamasaki
named Pruitt-Igoe. A cheese variety called Provel is used to make this city’s namesake variety of pizza.
The Red Line of this city’s transit system passes through towns such as Belleville and Swansea and
originates at its Lambert airport. One musical set in this city includes a song with the lyric “Meet me in
[this city], meet me at the fair.” A monument in this city is shaped like an inverted catenary curve and was
designed by Eero Saarinen. For the point, name this city on the Mississippi River, the largest in Eastern
Missouri.
ANSWER: St. Louis, Missouri

13. A megacity called NEOM is currently being built near this country’s capital. Religious militias called
the Ikhwan were active in this modern country. This country’s predominantly Shiite city of Najran was
the site of a suppressed early 2000s uprising. This country’s mountainous Nejd region was the original
home of its ruling dynasty, who later captured the region of Hejaz. For the point, name this country where
Muslims perform the hegira pilgrimage to Medina and the hajj pilgrimage to Mecca.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Saudi Arabia

14. A small strait known as Saltstraumen connects two of these features and has some of the strongest
tidal currents in the world. A land named for these features is located to the west of the Southern Alps in
New Zealand. The largest of these in continental Europe, Sogne, is located south of one of these aquatic
features named for Trondheim, while another is named for Oslo. For the point, give the name of this term
for long inlets left by receding glaciers common in Norway.
ANSWER: fjords




                                                                                                          3
15. Some scholars believe most of the events in this religious group’s primary scripture took place on the
Isthmus of Tehuantepec. A holy site in this religious sect, Hill Cumorah, is located near Palmyra, New
York in that state's "Burned-over district." This group’s founder was killed in Carthage, Illinois, just a few
miles from Nauvoo. Cities in this religious group's "belt" include Pocatello, St. George, and Provo, the
latter of which is home to Brigham Young University. For the point, name this American-based branch of
Christianity, headquartered in Salt Lake City.
ANSWER: Mormonism [accept The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints]

16. One type of these animals gathers in large numbers at the forest clearing of Dzanga Bai, and are
hunted specifically because of the “rust” or “pink” hue of one part of their body. That species is their
“forest” variety. 650 of these animals were killed at Bouba Njida National Park in Cameroon in 2012.
The most common type of these animals are taxonomically named Loxodonta Africana and are trained by
mahouts. This animal’s Asian variety is less frequently poached because its females usually lack tusks.
For the point, name these pachyderms who are frequently harvested for ivory.
ANSWER: elephants

17. An all-female kingdom in this river’s basin was described by the Franciscan monk Gaspar de
Carvajal, who accompanied an expedition on this river depicted in the most famous film of Werner
Herzog. At the “Meeting of the Waters”, a river whose sediment content renders its water black meets
this one. That location is where the Rio Negro meets this river at Manaus. Belem is a major port city on
this river, which empties an average of 200,000 cubic meters per second into the Atlantic Ocean. For the
point, name this longest river in South America.
ANSWER: Amazon [accept Solimoes]

18. An attempt was made after World War II to rename this mountain after Winston Churchill. This
mountain is named after a geologist who classified flat terrain as “mountainous” so that railroad
companies could receive more subsidies. Guitar Lake is located on the slopes of this mountain. This
mountain is partially located in Sequoia National Park, and it is the highest point in the Sierra Nevada.
This mountain is the second-highest state high point in the US. For the point, name this highest point in
California.
ANSWER: Mt. Whitney

19. A group of stone circles around this country’s namesake river includes the Wassu and Wannar
complexes. This country’s town of Juffureh is famous for being the ancestral home of Alex Haley, as
revealed in his memoir Roots. This country was led by Yahya Jammeh until a military intervention led by
ECOWAS. For seven years in the 1980’s, this country was part of a loose confederation with the country
that almost entirely surrounds it. For the point, name this West African country with its capital at Banjul.
ANSWER: The Gambia




                                                                                                            4
20. One landform in this country was once crossed by a greased wooden track that barges could be
dragged along. This country’s settlement of Karyes serves as the capital of a semi-autonomous monastic
state in its North. Samaria Gorge is a national park on this country’s largest island which was the site of a
major Nazi paratroop invasion. Most trade bound for this country’s capital passes through the port of
Piraeus. Thessaloniki is the second-largest city in, for the point, which country where one isthmus is
crossed by the Corinth Canal?
ANSWER: Greece

21. In the dish balut, this animal’s eggs are served fertilized. The Quanjude restaurant is the most famous
producer of one dish involving this animal. In European cuisines, this animal’s Muscovy subspecies is
frequently eaten. In French cuisine, this animal’s legs are served as a confit and this animal’s meat is
served with orange sauce. This animal’s mandarin breed is served with pancakes and hoisin sauce in one
traditional dish. For the point, name this bird, one famous preparation of which is named for Peking.
ANSWER: duck

22. These structures were built on the original site of the Selangor Turf Club. These structures were
designed by Cesar Pelli to serve as the headquarters of its country’s state oil company. The use of a
decorative spire controversially elevated these structures above the Willis Tower in Chicago, making
them briefly the tallest in the world. For the point, name these twin structures in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
ANSWER: Petronas Towers

23. This country’s Prime Minister was once a nationally ranked competitor in its “Bokh” wrestling
tradition. This country’s Turquoise Hill is the site of a massive copper mine. In this country, harsh winters
are known as dzud. This country’s capital suffers from pollution due to the prolific use of ger tents in its
slums, and this country’s language has a Khalkha dialect. For the point, name this Central Asian country
between China and Russia with its capital at Ulaanbaatar.
ANSWER: Mongolia

24. This national park was originally a national monument named for the French explorer Sieur de Mons.
This national park’s Eagle Lake and Jordan Pond are popular places for canoeing. The town of Southwest
Harbor is a primary access point to this national park. Cadillac Mountain overlooks this national park,
which contains Mount Desert Island. This national park near Bar Harbor is the easternmost national park
in the continental United States. For the point, name this national park in coastal Maine.
ANSWER: Acadia National Park

25. A smaller subset of these structures called Kavakava are small, slender figures possibly representing
demons or starving ancestors. A somewhat accurate replica of one of these structures with a concave face
sits near Shibuya station in Tokyo. Pavel Pavel and Thor Heyerdahl conducted an experiment using tree
trunks and rope to move these statues across great distances, possibly like the Rapa Nui who moved the
original ones. For the point, name these monoliths found in the Pacific Ocean that were made by
inhabitants of Easter Island.
ANSWER: Moai Statues [Accept Easter Island Heads before mentioned]




                                                                                                           5
26. “Gassy Jack” Deighton, an early settler in this city, is the namesake of this city’s neighborhood of
Gastown. Just northwest of this city’s downtown is the 1,000-acre Stanley Park, which has the south end
of the Lions Gate Bridge. One sporting event in this city hosted some events in nearby Whistler, and the
Fraser River enters the sea just south of this city. The Strait of Georgia separates this city from a
neighboring island that shares its name. For the point, name this largest city on the west coast of Canada.
ANSWER: Vancouver, British Columbia

27. The American adventurer, Richard Halliburton swam this waterway in 1928 and was then charged a
36 cent toll, the lowest in its history. The Madden Dam helps create a reservoir that is an essential part of
this waterway. Control of this waterway was transferred by the Hay-Bunau Varilla Treaty and the Carter-
Torrijos Treaty. This waterway passes through Gatun Lake. It’s not in Egypt, but this waterway was
designed by Ferdinand de Lesseps. For the point, name this body of water that traverses a namesake
isthmus to connect the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.
ANSWER: Panama Canal

28. This country built a cruise ship port at Labadee before ships attempting to call there were turned away
by protests. After the Santa Maria ran aground in what is now this country, the first European settlement
in the Americas was founded in 1492. This country’s department of Antibonite is located across a strait
from its Ile de la Gonave, and this country’s second-largest city was formerly known as Cap-Français.
This country’s city of Leogane was the epicenter of a 2010 earthquake that struck its capital. For the
point, name this Caribbean country led from Port-au-Prince.
ANSWER: Haiti

29. In 2019, the Bharatiya Janata party may have influenced astrologers to declare a “half” one of these
events to coincide with an election year. These things frequently take place in a set of twelve cities where
phallic objects called lingams are displayed. One city involved in the largest one of these things recently
had its name changed from Allahabad to Prayagraj. The world’s largest one of these events is called
Kumbh Mela and involves bathing in the Ganges river. For the point, name these events that frequently
end in the holy city of Varanasi and involve traveling for religious purposes.
ANSWER: Hindu pilgrimages [accept kumbh mela]

30. This country is the namesake of a notable vaudeville theater in DeKalb, Illinois. City names such as
Dongola and Metropolis were created due to a nickname one region acquired analogizing it to this
country. That nickname is referenced by the team name of the Southern Illinois Salukis. The Washington
Monument was constructed as part of an architectural trend referencing this country, and the largest
building of a type native to this country in the US is a Bass Pro Shops in Memphis. For the point, name
this country whose architecture is referenced by memorial obelisks and the former Pyramid Arena.
ANSWER: Egypt




                                                                                                           6
31. The survivors of a failed Spanish settlement in this modern state left their slaves behind in San Miguel
de Guadalupe, making it the US’s first all-black settlement. What is now this state’s Congaree National
Park served as a hideout for the revolutionary war general Francis Marion. A legislator in this state,
Clementa Pinckney, was killed in a shooting at Emmanuel Baptist church in its largest coastal city. This
state’s Fort Sumter was the site of the Civil War’s beginning. For the point, name this Southern state with
its capital at Columbia.
ANSWER: South Carolina

32. One town in this state attracted national media attention for hiring an armed personnel carrier to
protect its pumpkin festival. That pumpkin festival occurred in its town of Keene. Every four years, this
state’s locales of Hart’s Location and Dixville Notch are usually home to the first presidential primary
voters. The highest recorded wind speed ever occurred at a peak in this state’s Presidential Range. This
state that contains Mt. Washington contains the White Mountains. For the point, name this New England
state with its capital at Concord.
ANSWER: New Hampshire

33. One rapper from this city describes his upbringing with a card-hustler father in a recently published
autobiography. One rap group from this city pioneered a flow involving a continuous flow of triplets and
often nicknamed for their song “Versace,” while another rap group interpolated the first three letters of
this city’s name with “aliens” to name their second album. One rapper from this city produced a song in
which he quotes a flute portion of the musical “Selma”, “Mask Off”. This city is home to a group whose
members are Takeoff, Offset, and Quavo. For the point, name this city home to hip hop artists including
Migos and Gucci Mane.
ANSWER: Atlanta, Georgia

34. This city’s main cemetery is located on a mountain near its waterfront, Montjuic. George Orwell
described street fighting in this city by the POUM (spell it out) in a memoir. This city’s main tourist
street is named for a local word for a dry creek bed. That street is La Rambla. This city’s Parc Guell and a
cathedral that has been under construction since the 1920s, the Sagrada Familia, were designed by Antoni
Gaudi. For the point, name this Spanish city, the capital of Catalonia.
ANSWER: Barcelona

35. Though not the Himalayas, nine hikers died in this mountain range in 1959 in a still-unsolved incident
often cited as evidence for the existence of the Yeti. A city whose name translates as “magnetic mountain
city” was built in this mountain range in the 1930s. It’s not the Altai Mountains, but Udmurt, Mari,
Finnish, and Hungarian are all members of a language family named for this mountain range. This
mountain range was the site of a notorious Soviey labor camp complex at Vorkuta. For the point, name
this mountain range in Russia, frequently used as a dividing line between Europe and Asia.
ANSWER: Ural Mountains




                                                                                                          7
Backup
It’s not in the Middle East, but King Soshangane established the Gaza Empire in this country. This
country’s Northern border is formed by the Ruvuma River. The port city of Sofala is in this country, and
this country’s flag features an AK-47 to commemorate its civil war. This country’s namesake channel
separates it from Madagascar. For the point, name this Portuguese-speaking country in East Africa with
its capital at Maputo.
ANSWER: Mozambique




                                                                                                      8
