                      INTERNATIONAL GEOGRAPHY BEE: Round 2
Tournament                                                                                   Room                                          Division
 Moderator                                                                 Scorer
                                                                                                                         Round
                                                                                                                                          (circle 1)   V JV
Student names (include
                            1   2   3     4   5     6   7   8   9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Final
full name and school)
                                                                                                                                                score
Total pts for reaching +8               15 points               14    13      12 pts   11 points         10 points          9 points          8 points
INSTRUCTIONS:
SCORING: For correct answers, place new running total in student’s row for the corresponding question. For -1’s (3 rd incorrect interrupt), place running total
and circle it. Cross out entire column if no score change. Make sure to place scores in the column for the correct question.
REACHING +8: Remove student from round. In “Final score” column, place student’s total score (refer to the bottom row for the question on which +8 was
reached). Cross out remainder of student’s row.
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                             Bee Round 2



                                        Bee Round 2
Regulation Questions

(1) This seaport was the starting point of a colonial railway that was completed by Indian migrant
laborers in 1901 and was later nicknamed the “Lunatic Express” for its exorbitant cost. Portugal lost this
city’s Fort Jesus to an Omani expeditionary force following a three year siege in 1698. In 1498, Vasco da
Gama briefly visited this port before traveling north to Malindi, where he got a friendlier reception. Before
it came under British rule in the 1800s, this port was controlled by the nearby Sultanate of Zanzibar. For
the point, name this historic Kenyan port that lies southeast of Nairobi.
ANSWER: Mombasa

(2) A letter from the bishop Severus claims one of these islands was dominated by Jews until a forced
mass conversion in AD 418. Another of these islands was the home of the Xueta [sh’weh-tah] community
of crypto-Jews. It was home to the Jewish father-son team of Abraham and Jehuda Cresques [kres-kehs],
leading members in a medieval school of cartography who produced the Catalan Atlas. In 1757, John
Byng was executed for losing one of these islands that Britain had gained along with Gibraltar in the
War of Spanish Succession. During the Reconquista, these islands were conquered by Aragon following
the siege of Palma. For the point, name these Spanish-Mediterranean islands including Minorca, Majorca,
and Ibiza.
ANSWER: Balearic Islands (prompt on descriptions of “islands owned by Spain” before “Spanish” is read)

(3) The grasslands of this non-European country contain most of the world’s known “fairy circles,”
which are large, circular patches of dirt that mysteriously dot its landscape. In this country, a thick fog
belt constantly covers a long coastal desert that is the only habitat of the Welwitschia, a gymnosperm
often described as a living fossil. To the north of this country’s port of Walvis Bay, thousands of whale
bones and rusting shipwrecks line the 500-foot sand dunes of its Skeleton Coast. For the point, name this
mostly-desert country south of Angola.
ANSWER: Namibia

(4) In summer months, this site regularly hosts the Lasershow Spectacular, the world’s longest running
lasershow. In October 2015, state officials announced plans to install a bell atop this landmark to
commemorate Martin Luther King’s “I Have a Dream” speech, which mentions this landmark, as well as
Lookout Mountain. After the 1915 lynching of Leo Frank, William J. Simmons set up a burning cross at
this landmark to mark the refounding of the KKK. Before working on Mount Rushmore, Gutzon Borglum
began carving the figure of Robert E. Lee into this granite monolith. For the point, name this Georgia
“mountain,” a large Confederate memorial.
ANSWER: Stone Mountain Park




                                                   Page 1
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                               Bee Round 2


(5) An observatory in this city housed a 35-foot-long stone arc that served as the world’s largest sextant.
This former capital contains many monuments topped by ribbed turquoise domes on tall cylindrical
drums. Its former central square, called the Registan, is framed by three madrasahs featuring large blue
iwans, or open-faced halls. Ulugh Beg built multiple monuments in this city, including a mausoleum for his
grandfather called the Gur-e-Amir. This city in Sogdia lies east of the fellow Silk Road center of Bukhara.
For the point, name this Uzbek city that once served as the capital of Tamerlane’s empire.
ANSWER: Samarkand

(6) In what is now this country, British occupation forces tortured the 14-year old mulatto girl Luisa
Calderon, resulting in governor Thomas Picton being transported back to England for trial. An author
from this present-day country narrated its history in The Loss of El Dorado. The book Capitalism and
Slavery was authored by this country’s first prime minister, the Caribbean historian Eric Williams.
A Marxist historian from this country reframed the Haitian Revolution as part of the wider Age of
Revolution in his 1938 book The Black Jacobins. C.L.R. James and V.S. Naipaul are from, for the point,
what country consisting of two Caribbean islands, whose capital is Port of Spain?
ANSWER: Trinidad and Tobago (prompt on Trinidad or Tobago by themselves)

(7) This was the religion practiced by the “Fragrant Concubine,” whose biography was modified by
government propagandists to promote religious solidarity. The most common last name among Chinese
followers of this religion is Ma, which literally translates as “horse.” Millions of followers of this religion
died during an 1860s revolt in the province of Gansu. Du Wenxiu led followers of this religion in the
Panthay Rebellion, which was contemporaneous with the Dungan Rebellion against the Qing Dynasty.
The term “Hui” refers to Chinese people of this religion, such as the eunuch Zheng He. For the point,
name this minority religion in China followed by many people in Xinjiang, such as the Uighurs [wee-gurs].
ANSWER: Islam (accept word forms, including Muslim, and specific sects, such as Sunni Islam)

(8) People who take part in this action are perjoratively called “minga,” the Pitjantjatjara word for
ants. This action is discouraged by a message that describes “the proper way to behave” and notes
that this action violates tjukurpa. At least three dozen people have died performing this action, which is
assisted by a chain that was installed in 1964. The Anangu strongly oppose this action, which Bob Hawke
pledged to ban in 1983 but still remains legal. For the point, name this culturally insensitive action that
involves disrespecting millennia of Aboriginal tradition and rising 1,100 feet over the Northern Territory
of Australia.
ANSWER: climbing Uluru (accept equivalents for climbing, like hiking on Uluru; accept Ayers
Rock for Uluru)




                                                   Page 2
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                          Bee Round 2


(9) To defend this non-Prussian region against Cuman-Kipchak incursions, Andrew II of Hungary invited
the Teutonic Knights here in 1211. In the 12th and 13th centuries, this historical region’s namesake
“Saxons” settled in its seven fortified cities, which include modern-day Brasov and Sibiu. Its Szekely
Land was the center of its ethnic Hungarian population. John Zapolya became governor of this formerly
Hungarian region after the Ottomans captured it in the Battle of Mohacs. The 1920 Treaty of Trianon
ceded this region to Romania. For the point, name this historical region northwest of the Carpathians,
the home of Dracula.
ANSWER: Transylvania (accept Siebenburgen until “Szekely” is read)

(10) According to legend, this mountain range was the site of multiple battles between the above-world
god Skell and the below-world god Llao. Large amounts of fulgurite are present on this range’s Mount
Thielsen because its spire-shaped peak tends to attract lightning strikes. A national park was created in
this range after its Lassen Peak volcano emerged from dormancy in 1915. The local Klamath tribe lends
spiritual significance to its Mount Mazama, whose 6000 BC eruption created a large caldera lake that
now contains Wizard Island. Crater Lake is found in, for the point, what Pacific Northwestern mountain
range?
ANSWER: Cascade Range (or the Cascades)

(11) Workers in this industry were infamously forced by Carlos Fitzcarrald to dismantle a steamship
and transport it over a mountain. According to the anthropologist Michael Taussig, this industry’s Arana
brothers created a “space of death” around the Putumayo River by exploiting indigenous workers outside
the isolated city of Iquitos. Tycoons from this industry founded the “Paris of the Tropics,” the isolated
city of Manaus. In the early 1900s, Roger Casement exposed its exploitative labor practices in both
the Amazon and the Congo. For the point, name this industry that harvested latex from trees in the
rainforest.
ANSWER: natural rubber industry

(12) A dialect of this region’s language that is nearly mutually unintelligible includes the archaic vowel
“arae-a,” which is transcribed as an upside-down e. A volcanic island south of this peninsula features a
landscape dotted with thousands of statues called “stone grandfathers,” or hareubangs. Off the southern
coast of this peninsula, female pearl divers called Haenyeo established a semi-matriarchal society on Jeju
Island, which remained politically isolated from this peninsula during the Joseon Dynasty. The hangul
alphabet is used on, for the point, what Asian peninsula, home to cities like Seoul?
ANSWER: Korean Peninsula (accept Jeju Island or Jejudo before “this peninsula”)

(13) In the 1950s, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers controversially proposed damming this river at
Tocks Island, near the Minisink Valley. This river features a pentagonal fort on its Pea Patch Island,
which was a Union prison in the Civil War. The border formed by the Twelve-Mile Circle extends into
this river, which is the eastern boundary of the Lehigh Valley. It flows through the cities of Wilmington
and Trenton and forms the entire border between New Jersey and Pennsylvania. For the point, name this
river crossed in 1776 by George Washington.
ANSWER: Delaware River




                                                 Page 3
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                           Bee Round 2


(14) After this city suffered flooding in 1966, hundreds of volunteers nicknamed “mud angels” arrived
to help restore damaged artwork. The Baroque painter Pietro da Cortana decorated frescoes at a palace
adjacent to this city’s Boboli Gardens. A new ruling dynasty in this city commissioned the propagandistic
San Marco Altarpiece by Fra Angelico to signify its growing power. This city’s Ponte Vecchio bridge is
part of the elevated Vasari Corridor, which ends at the Palazzo Pitti and passes through an art museum
beside the Arno River. For the point, name this city where the Uffizi was built by the Medicis.
ANSWER: Florence

(15) From 1886 to 1891, this territory was bordered to the east by the short-lived French-speaking
Republic of Counani. This territory owns the Islands of Salvation, the smallest of which was described
in Henri Charriere’s memoir Papillon [pap-ee-yohn]. Arianespace [air-ee-ahn-”space”] conducts rocket
launches from its city of Kourou, which is also the primary launch site of the European Space Agency.
Alfred Dreyfus was imprisoned on Devil’s Island in this territory, whose capital is Cayenne. For the point,
name this French overseas department in mainland South America.
ANSWER: French Guiana (do not prompt on or accept “Guyana”)

(16) A dream of creating this structure was the subject of the poem “Swimming” by a leader who opted to
create a similar structure at Gezhouba first. John Savage’s final land survey planned this structure, whose
construction destroyed the wetland homes of the Siberian crane, drove the baiji dolphin to extinction, and
displaced 1.3 million people. This structure overtook the Itaipu Dam as the world’s largest power station
when it was completed in Hubei province in 2012. For the point, name this large dam on the Yangtze
River.
ANSWER: Three Gorges Dam

(17) This mountain range contains one of the world’s largest garnet deposits at its Gore Mountain. This
mountain range is the site of a former Olympic Village that was converted into a federal prison. Theodore
Roosevelt learned of William McKinley’s death while vacationing in this range’s Lake Tear [tier] of the
Clouds, which lies below Mount Marcy. The 1980 Winter Olympics, which included the “Miracle on Ice”
hockey game, were hosted in this range’s Lake Placid. For the point, name this mountain range that lies
north of the Catskills in upstate New York.
ANSWER: Adirondacks

(18) Elite workers who produced this commodity were believed to control the life force of nyama in the
Mande culture. In the Yoruban pantheon, the first warrior and hunter was a sword-wielding god of this
commodity called Ogun. In Nigeria, terracotta sculptures and examples of this commodity have been
discovered in the 1st-millennia BC sites of the Nok culture. Bantu agriculturalists were able to expand
into sub-Saharan Africa because they knew how to work with ceramics and this commodity. The Hittites
were among the first to manufacture tools from, for the point, what metal that names an age following
the Bronze Age?
ANSWER: iron (accept wrought iron, iron tools, iron slag)




                                                  Page 4
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                           Bee Round 2


(19) Since the 1970s, immigrants of this ethnicity have politically organized themselves at the Versailles
Restaurant. In the 19th century, Spaniards and Italians settled alongside immigrants of this ethnicity in
Ybor City. People of this ethnicity form giant conga lines at the annual Calle Ocho festival. Workers of
this ethnicity invented a namesake sandwich consisting of ham, roasted pork, Swiss cheese, pickles, and
mustard. For the point, name this ethnicity that populates the Miami neighborhood of Little Havana.
ANSWER: Cuban-Americans (prompt on Hispanic, Latino, or similar terms)

(20) From 1865 to 1867, Western Union spent $3 million trying to build a telegraph line between this
country’s capital and San Francisco, as an alternative to the trans-Atlantic telegraph cable. On behalf of
this country, an agent founded Fort Elizabeth on the island of Kauai in 1817, then withdrew a few months
later. The U.S. landed 5,000 troops in this country as part of the Polar Bear Expedition towards the end
of World War I. This country built Fort Ross in California before ceding the territory in 1842, and it gave
the name “New Archangel” to Sitka, the capital of its American colonies. For the point, name this country
that sold Alaska to the U.S.
ANSWER: Russia (do not accept USSR)

(21) This lake was discovered in 1690 by the English explorer Henry Kelsey, who named it after the
local word for “muddy waters.” In the 1870s, this lake became the site of “New Iceland,” which centered
around its town of Gimli. The Nelson River drains this lake before flowing northeast into a bay near the
York Factory trading post. This lake is the largest remnant of the prehistoric Glacial Lake Agassiz. The
capital city of the Red River Colony was named after this lake, which receives the Saskatchewan River.
For the point, name this large lake in Manitoba.
ANSWER: Lake Winnipeg

(22) A sightseeing flight crashed into this mountain in 1979, killing over 250 people in what was Air
New Zealand’s worst-ever disaster. This mountain occasionally ejects its namesake “crystals,” which are
large oblong pieces of anorthoclase feldspar encased in glassy volcanic “bombs.” This mountain was first
climbed in 1908 by members of the Nimrod expedition. It stands on Ross Island, near a smaller extinct
volcano called Mount Terror. For the point, name this southernmost active volcano on Earth, located in
Antarctica.
ANSWER: Mount Erebus

(23) Two answers required. The border between these two countries was partly mapped by the extremely
inaccurate Johnson Line, which was later replaced by the Macartney-Macdonald Line. Another part of the
border between these countries was set along the McMahon Line by the 1914 Simla Agreement. Neither
country is Pakistan, but the modern border between them runs along the Line of Actual Control. These
two countries fought a border war in 1962, three years after one of them helped the Dalai Lama to flee
from the other. For the point, name these two large Asian countries separated by the Himalayas.
ANSWER: China and India (accept countries in either order; accept similar descriptions, like Sino-
Indian War; prompt on partial answers)




                                                  Page 5
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                          Bee Round 2


(24) This area’s flag is inscribed with a phrase translated as “Everything is in the hands of God” and
resembles an American flag with 23 white stars and 5 symbolically blackened stars. This area lies 200
miles east of Enewetak, the site of a giant concrete dome built to cover a crater filled with contaminated
debris. Near this area, the crew of the Japanese fishing boat Lucky Dragon No. 5 was injured during an
event codenamed “Castle Bravo.” During the Cold War, this atoll in the Marshall Islands was the site of
23 nuclear tests. For the point, name this Pacific atoll that names a type of women’s swimwear.
ANSWER: Bikini Atoll

(25) This state is home to an 80,000-year old clonal colony of quaking aspens called Pando the Trembling
Giant, which is sometimes considered the world’s largest organism. One park in this state contains a
sandstone labyrinth known as the Fiery Furnace. In another national park in this state, tourists must
wade knee-deep through the Virgin River while hiking a canyon known as The Narrows. This state’s
official license plate features a rock formation known as the Delicate Arch, part of its Arches National
Park. For the point, name this state that contains Zion National Park and the Great Salt Lake.
ANSWER: Utah

(26) This city’s Old Town begins at the dark-colored Powder Tower, the start of a coronation route
that crosses a river and goes up to this city’s namesake “Castle.” This city’s national gallery houses a
20 canvas-cycle called The Slav Epic, a masterpiece of Alphonse Mucha. The upscale Jewish Quarter in
this city is the site of the Old-New Synagogue, where rabbi Judah Loew legendarily stored the remains of
his Golem. Its St. Vitus Cathedral, which overlooks the Vltava River, includes the richly decorated St.
Wenceslas Chapel. For the point, name this capital of the Czech Republic.
ANSWER: Prague

(27) This country’s western border features a shared hydroelectric dam at the Island of Peace park,
where the mentally unstable soldier Ahmed Daqamseh shot and killed 7 students in 1997. Apocryphally,
this country’s eastern border was randomly drawn by a drunk Winston Churchill, leading the border to
be nicknamed “Churchill’s Sneeze” or “Winston’s Hiccup.” In 1970, its monarchy expelled the PLO from
this country during Black September. This former British mandate is officially known as the Hashemite
Kingdom. For the point, name this country that lost the West Bank in the Six-Day War and has capital
Amman.
ANSWER: Jordan

(28) This river is crossed by the iconic Chain of Rocks Bridge, whose path abruptly bends 22 degrees
in the middle of the river. Secretary of War William Belknap unscrupulously opposed the construction
of this river’s Eads Bridge, whose builders proved it was safe by having a “test elephant” walk across it.
In 1869, the construction of the Hennepin Island tunnel beneath this river caused the collapse of its only
major waterfall, the St. Anthony Falls. While piloting steamboats on this river, Samuel Clemens coined
his pen name “Mark Twain.” For the point, name this river that, like the Missouri, flows for over 2,000
miles within the United States.
ANSWER: Mississippi River




                                                 Page 6
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                              Bee Round 2


(29) In a film set in this city, three women dressed in European-style clothing smuggle bombs from their
purses into a milk bar, a café, and an airline office. In this city, the paratrooper general Jacques Massu
employed electroshock torture to crack down on insurgents during a 1956 battle. The Italian director Gillo
Pontecorvo depicted guerrilla warfare around this city’s Casbah citadel in a 1966 newsreel-style film titled
The Battle of [this city]. It was once home to French settlers called pied-noirs, who opposed the FLN
insurgency. For the point, name this capital of Algeria.
ANSWER: Algiers (accept The Battle of Algiers)

(30) Jack Neville designed a figure-eight shaped facility for this activity on the Monterey Peninsula on
the Pacific Coast. The oldest confirmed location for this activity is Musselburgh in East Lothian, which
rents out hickory equipment. Creeping red fescue and sand dunes characterize the landscape used for the
original style of this activity, as enjoyed at Carnoustie, Muirfield, and a “Royal and Ancient” club in St.
Andrews. For the point, name this sporting event played on links courses in Scotland over the course of
18 holes.
ANSWER: golf

(31) A 10-mile-long dike once separated this lake’s brackish section from its freshwater section, a
heavily-populated area to the west. This lake, the largest of several interconnected volcanic endorheic
lakes, was once home to many axolotls [ash-oh-lot-ul’s], a critically-endangered amphibian that now only
lives in the canal system including Lake Chalco to the south. The Florentine Codex described how this
lake was lined with large causeways and chinampas, or “floating gardens.” For the point, name this
no-longer-extant lake in the Valley of Mexico where the Aztecs built Tenochtitlan.
ANSWER: Lake Texcoco

(32) This country’s earliest religious structures followed a distinct architectural style in which an external
stairway led up to a sanctuary elevated upon a series of high wooden pillars. An aesthetic value from
this country emphasized nature’s imperfection by praising asymmetrical, misshapen pottery. In the 9th
century, two competing Buddhist sects were founded at monasteries atop this country’s Mount Hiei and
Mount Koya. A sacred mirror sits in a shrine within this country that is rebuilt every 20 years. In this
country, fox statues and dozens of orange-red torii stand in shrines to Inari. For the point, name this
country that contains many Shinto shrines.
ANSWER: Japan (Note: The first line refers to the Taisha-zukuri style, and the second line refers to
wabi-sabi)

(33) To emblematize imperial power, Sebastian Munster depicted this region as a queen with a crown
and scepter in his 1544 work Cosmographia. This region constituted the bottom-left part of medieval-era
“T and O” maps. Herodotus identified its eastern boundary as the Phasis River, now known as the Rioni
River. It was named for a mythological Phoenician princess who fathered King Minos of Crete before being
abducted by Zeus in the form of a white bull. Many writers of antiquity identified this continent’s eastern
boundary as the Don River. For the point, name this continent separated from Asia by the Caucasus and
Ural Mountains.
ANSWER: Europe (accept Europa)




                                                   Page 7
US Varsity and JV National - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                           Bee Round 2


(34) This park contains the best-known displays of the Great Unconformity, a geomorphic surface that
represents a 1 billion year gap in the geological record. The mnemonic “Know [this park’s] history, study
rocks made by time” is used to memorize the names of rock layers above that unconformity. This park
represents the bottom step of a geological sequence known as the “Grand Staircase,” which begins over
100 miles to the northeast at Bryce Canyon. On the Bright Angel Trail, tourists can ride mules down
this park’s South Rim. For the point, name this Arizona national park that contains a large gorge of the
Colorado River.
ANSWER: Grand Canyon National Park

(35) In the 1870s, American entrepreneurs began exporting this commodity from Roatan in the Bay
Islands. In the 1930s, small-scale producers of this commodity were driven out of business by yellow
sigatoka disease. Its Gros Michel variety was long afflicted by Panama Disease, leading to the introduction
of its modern Cavendish variety in the 1950s. Most of the railroads in Honduras were originally built
to transport this commodity for the United Fruit Company. For the point, name this fruit, produced in
namesake Latin American “republics.”
ANSWER: bananas (prompt on fruit)

Extra Question
Only read if moderator botches a question.
(1) In this city, a tank was photographed bulldozing through the front gate of its Independence
Palace. Another photograph from this city depicts dozens of people lining up atop a building to
enter a helicopter. As part of Operation Frequent Wind, crewmen were photographed pushing
helicopters from this city off the side of an aircraft carrier, in order to make room for even more
incoming helicopters. In 1968, a general was photographed in this city holding a revolver to the
head of a Communist assassin in a plaid shirt. For the point, name this former capital of South
Vietnam.
ANSWER: Saigon (accept Ho Chi Minh City)




                                                  Page 8
