   International Geography Bee 2019 US National Championships
                  Varsity & Junior Varsity Division
                                             Round 2
1. Project Kaisei is dedicated to studying this phenomenon. A 2015 study of this phenomenon says that
much of its contents originate from China and Indonesia. Photodegradation of flotsam in this
phenomenon leads to the creation of toxic bisphenol A. Rotating ocean gyres near the horse latitudes have
created this phenomenon, which has threatened albatross and sea turtle populations. For the point, name
this ecological phenomenon, a vortex of plastic waste in the world's largest ocean.
ANSWER: Great Pacific Garbage Patch [accept trash or plastic for “garbage”, accept vortex for
“patch”]

2. Natives of this region who fought against the Aghlabid Emirate included Bosso and Drogo. A “pocket”
in which a German panzer group was encircled formed around this region’s city of Falaise. This region’s
department of Calvados is home to a namesake apple brandy which was widely offered to invading forces
in World War II. This region’s largest cities include Caen, Cherbourg, and Le Havre. A series of beaches
in this region were assaulted during Operation Overlord. For the point, name this region of northern
France from which William the Conqueror launched an invasion of England.
ANSWER: Normandy

3. A canyon named for this metal in northern Mexico is home to the Tarahumara people. An
archaeological complex named for this metal is found in the basin of Lake Superior. The Chalcolithic
period saw heavy use of this metal in tools. Chile is the world’s leading producer of this metal, which
names the country of Cyprus and is mixed with tin to form bronze. For the point, name this reddish-
orange metal used in wiring.
ANSWER: copper [accept Cu]

4. The five-pointed star on this country’s flag symbolizes the five colonies that its namesake ethnic group
inhabited. The Guardafui Channel lies off this country’s coast to the northeast. One of this country’s
longest rivers is the Shebelle, and this country receives much of its trade through the port of Kismaayo.
Hargeisa is the capital of a breakaway region of this country which had been colonized by the British,
unlike the Italian-colonize south. Until recently, this country’s economy depended in large part on piracy
in the Gulf of Aden. For the point, name this African country with its capital at Mogadishu.
ANSWER: Somalia
5. This language’s “Tale of an Anklet”, written by its prince Ilango Adigal, is one of its Five Great Epics.
This language’s film industry produced stars who later became politicians such as Vijayakanth and
Jayaram Jayalalithaa. One guerrilla group aimed to create a homeland called “Eelam” for speakers of this
language. Speakers of this language established the Chera and Chola empires. For the point, name this
language spoken in a Southern Indian state with its capital at Chennai.
ANSWER: Tamil

6. A state park named for these landforms is named for a Sleeping Bear, while another group of these
landforms is located around Warren, Michigan. The United States’ most recently established national
park is named for these landforms, which make up a former national lakeshore in Indiana.Types of these
landforms include barkhans. Groups of these landforms are known by the Arabic term “erg”. For the
point, name these landforms that consist of large mounds of sand.
ANSWER: dunes

7. This island’s Northland Peninsula contains the Tamaki Isthmus and the Bay of Islands, as well as its
city of Whangarei. This island is known as “the fish of Maui” due to a legend in which a fisherman
dragged it up from the sea before its counterpart. The Treaty of Waitangi was signed on this island, and
this island is separated from its Southern neighbor by the Cook Strait. This island’s largest city is
Auckland. For the point, name this island that contains its country’s capital of Wellington.
ANSWER: North Island

8. The clipper ship Star of India is displayed intact in this city’s harbor, which is protected by an isthmus
known as the Silver Strand. A mission in this city was the southern end of the Camino Real. This city’s
tourist attractions include the massive Balboa Park and the historic Gaslamp Quarter, and this city serves
as the main base for the US’s Pacific Fleet. This city is located just across a border from the city of
Tijuana. For the point, name this city in Southern California near the Mexican border.
ANSWER: San Diego, California

9. This country’s ski resort town of Karakol was formerly named for the explorer Nikolai Przewalski. The
24,000-ft Pik Pobedy is this country’s highest point, and this country’s people traditionally recite the epic
of Manas. This country’s Tien Shan Mountains and Lake Ysyk-kol take up much of this country’s land
area, whose largest ethnic minority is centered around its city of Osh, located near its border with eastern
Uzbekistan. For the point, name this central Asian country with its capital at Bishkek.
ANSWER: Kyrgyzstan

10. This country is where the fire took place that is the subject of the Deep Purple song “Smoke on the
Water.” The so-called “Rösti line”, named for a type of potato pancake, divides this country into two
cultural regions. During the Napoleonic Wars, the republics of Rhodania and Lemania were established in
this modern country. Jura is the newest of this country’s 26 administrative divisions. The Romansch
language is spoken primarily in this country. The World Economic Forum is traditionally held in this
country’s city of Davos. For the point, name this country with its capital at Bern.
ANSWER: Switzerland [accept Suisse, Schweiz, Helvetia]
11. In one historical paradigm, this mountain range is known as the siba, or wild land, and contrasted with
the lowland makhazen. The Draa River forms a large valley in this mountain range. The Aures Mountains
are a continuation of this mountain range. Mount Toubkal is the highest peak in this mountain range and
its country. The Tamazight language is spoken primarily in this mountain range, which is home to a
significant Berber population. For the point, name this mountain range in Morocco and Algeria named for
a Greek titan who held up the world.
ANSWER: Atlas Mountains

12. This language is the largest to use “attitude particles” which indicate the provenance of knowledge
about a sentence’s topic. During a civil war, soldiers were nicknamed for a flesh-eating monster feared by
speakers of this language, the pishkatu. This language is known indigenously as runa simi. The Wanka
people speak this language. This language was likely encoded on knotted strings called Quipu. For the
point, name this language used for administration by the Inca Empire.
ANSWER: Quechua

13. A recently-discontinued annual event of this type, named Sasquatch, took place near the comically-
named town of George, Washington. Other large events of this type are held in Manchester, Tennessee
and Chicago's Grant Park. The valley that contains Indio and Palm Springs names an annual event of this
type that takes place over two April weekends in Southern California, while Max Yasgur's farm was an
unlikely host for an event of this type in Bethel, New York in 1969. Lollapalooza, Coachella, and
Woodstock are examples of, for the point, what type of entertainment event that feature rappers, singers,
and instrumental performers in outdoor spaces?
ANSWER: music festivals [accept music and arts festivals, prompt on concerts]

14. Rhythmic tumba music was developed in this country’s colonies. This country controls the islands of
Saba and St. Eustatius. The Papiamentu language is spoken in one of this country’s colonies. This country
divides the island of St. Martin with France and controls the “ABC” islands, Aruba, Bonaire, and
Curacao. For the point, name this colonial power that founded cities including Oranjestad and Willemstad
in its Caribbean colonies.
ANSWER: Kingdom of the Netherlands

15. The Shirvan Shahdom was based in this modern country. The first offshore oil platform in the world
was controlled by this country near Neft Daslari, or Oil Rocks. Zaha Hadid designed a curved-roofed
“center” named for this country’s first president, Heydar Aliyev, which is located in this country’s capital
on the Absheron Peninsula. This country controls the exclave of Naxcivan (nock-CHAY-vahn) and
fights with its western neighbor for control of Nagorno-Karabakh. For the point, name this Caucasian
country with its capital at Baku.
ANSWER: Azerbaijan
16. US Army officer Charles Bonesteel helped demarcate this country’s southern border. A town in this
country made mostly out of cardboard nicknamed “propaganda village” contains a 525-foot-tall flagpole.
The city of Dandong hosts many guest workers from this country, and this country is separated from its
northern neighbor by the Yalu River. This country claims that two of its leaders were born on its sacred
Mount Paektu. This country’s Juche Tower is the tallest building in its capital. For the point, name this
country ruled by the Kim family since its independence in 1945.
ANSWER: North Korea [accept Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, DPRK]

17. This river is the “water” referred to in Patrick Leigh Fermor’s memoir Between the Woods and the
Water about a hiking trip he took along its valley in the 1930’s. This river’s island of Ada Kaleh was
submerged by a hydroelectic plant construction project in 1970. An island named for this river that
contains a tower named for this river is located in one city’s Kaisermuhlen neighborhood. This river’s
delta is located in the Dobruja region. After a NATO bombing campaign, the city of Novi Sad was left
without any bridges over this river. This river passes through the Iron Gates gorge and meets the Sava
River at Belgrade. For the point, name this river that flows through capital cities including Vienna and
Budapest.
ANSWER: Danube [accept Donau, Duna, Dunav, Dunarea]

18. The bonatus species of this animal is only found in Poland and Belarus’s Belavezha Forest. The
Zubron is a hybrid of this animal and a domesticated cousin. A David Mamet play is titled for a rare
nickel whose design depicted this animal. The TV magnate Ted Turner founded a chain of restaurants
intended to popularize these animals’ meat. These animals were frequently hunted from transcontinental
trains, and these animals were the main food source for tribes such as the Lakota. For the point, name this
animal who once roamed the West.
ANSWER: bison [accept Bison bison, buffalo]

19. This country’s Yacopi region is a global center of emerald mining. The African-based Palenquero
language is spoken in this country. The Marquetalia Republic was established by one guerrilla group in
this country. This country’s cities of Popayan and Cartagena are centers of cumbia music. This country’s
city of Medellin was a hub of cocaine trafficking in the 1980s. For the point, name this country terrorized
by the FARC whose capital is at Bogota.
ANSWER: Colombia

20. On this holiday, some rural villages take part in a ritual known as “bone washing”. Cockscomb
flowers, marigolds and copal resin are used together during the observance of this holiday. A special
bread formed in strips that look like bones and candy skulls are traditionally made to commemorate this
holiday. For the point, name this holiday syncretized with All Soul’s Day in which Mexicans
commemorate deceased ancestors.
ANSWER: Dia de los Muertos [accept Hanal Pixan, Day of the Dead, All Souls’ Day until mention]
21. This river’s source is located at Lake Granby, and this river’s northernmost tributary is the Green
River. This river only reaches the sea when waters are released from its many dams. An engineering
mishap relating to canals connected to this river created the Salton Sea. Dams including the Glen Canyon
Dam on this river create lakes including Lake Mead and Lake Powell. For the point, name this river that
flows through the Grand Canyon that shares its name with a mountainous state.
ANSWER: Colorado River

22. This country’s muridiyya Sufi brotherhood is headquartered in its holy city of Touba. This country’s
Casamance region is home to a secessionist movement, and this country’s ports, which could send
representatives to the French parliament under colonialism, include the island of Goree and Saint-Louis.
This country’s Cap Vert is the westernmost point on the African mainland. For the point, name this West
African country with its capital at Dakar.
ANSWER: Senegal

23. The Skirvin Hilton Hotel in this city is legendarily haunted. This city was economically revitalized
under its mayor, Mick Cornett. This city is the largest in an ecoregion known as the Cross Timbers, and
one monument in this city contains a clock set at 9:03, the time a terror attack took place. This city’s
Murrah Federal Building was bombed by Timothy McVeigh. An NBA team now called the Thunder
recently relocated to this city. For the point, name this largest city in its namesake state which also
contains the city of Tulsa.
ANSWER: Oklahoma City [accept OKC]

24. A city that was known to the Greeks as Cottigara was a major ancient port near this river’s delta, and
was known to locals as Oc-Eo. A species of giant catfish found in this river may be the world’s largest
freshwater fish. This river is the middle river of the Three Parallel Rivers region. This river’s tributaries
include one that flows through a lake that dramatically expands in autumn, Tonle Sap. In China, it is
known as the Lancang River. For the point, name this Southeast Asian river that flows through Laos and
Vietnam.
ANSWER: Mekong River [accept Lancang Jiang before mention]



25. Mt. Tallac and Freel Peak are located around this lake, which was first sighted by Europeans by an
expedition under Charles Preuss. The Washo language isolate is spoken in the basin of this lake, and the
only outlet of this lake is the Truckee River. Timber from this lake was used as scaffolding at the nearby
Comstock Lode. This lake is the second-deepest in the United States, and a state capital located near this
lake was named for Kit Carson. For the point, name this lake on the California-Nevada border, popular as
a tourist destination.
ANSWER: Lake Tahoe
26. One river in this city is known as its namesake “lake” after flowing through its suburb of West Lake.
A popular stretch of restaurants in this city is nicknamed “the drag”. The cities of Round Rock and
Pflugerville are suburbs of this city, which is served by Bergstrom Airport. This city is known for a
bridge that thousands of Mexican free-tailed bats roost under during their migration. This city hosts the
annual South by Southwest Festival. For the point, name this state capital of Texas.
ANSWER: Austin, Texas

27. The Blackstone River, designated in 1990 as the US’s most polluted, flows through this state’s city of
Woonsocket, as well as its capital. The etymology of this state’s name is unclear, but it may have come
from the Dutch word for “red clay”. The US’s first offshore commercial wind farm is located off of
Block Island, which is the namesake of a sound to its south. This state’s Narragansett Bay is named for a
native tribe its founder, Roger Williams, once lived with. For the point, name this New England state
where Brown University is located in the city of Providence.
ANSWER: Rhode Island

28. A book by Fred Branfman exposed the existence of a US bombing campaign in this country. A white
elephant served as the emblem of this country’s medieval kingdom of Lan Xang, which was succeeded by
a kingdom named for this country’s city of Luang Prabang. This country’s Plain of Jars is dangerous due
to unexploded ordnance from the US’s bombing of the Ho Chi Minh Trail, which ran through this country
and its southern neighbor. For the point, name this Southeast Asian country with its capital at Vientiane.
ANSWER: Laos

29. A novel about a wily abolitionist is the namesake of one variety of this crop, Northern Spy. One
variety of this crop is named for the Australian Maria Anna Smith, and John Chapman is best known for
spreading this crop through the American midwest. A cup named for this fruit is the trophy for an annual
college football game in Washington State. For the point, name this crop that produces Fuji and
Honeycrisp varieties.
ANSWER: apple

30. One national park on this island has a name translating to “the land that never melts”. This island’s
Cape Dorset is the namesake of an ancient culture found on it. This island may have been identical to
“Helluland”, a region mentioned in Icelandic sagas. This island’s Foxe Basin is connected by a narrow
passage to its neighboring sea, and the Davis Strait borders it to the East. This island’s largest city is
located on its Frobisher Bay. For the point, name this island that contains the city of Iqaluit, the largest in
the Canadian Arctic.
ANSWER: Baffin Island [accept Qikiqtaaluk]

31. This city’s commuter rail line has stops in Hamilton Springs and Mt. Juliet. This city’s mayor, Megan
Barry, resigned after having an affair with her bodyguard following a contentious campaign in which a
proposal to build a light rail system in this city was defeated. This city contains a full-scale replica of the
Parthenon, and its Ryman Auditorium contains a famous theater in this city. This city is home to the
Country Music Hall of Fame and the Grand Ole Opry. For the point, name this capital of Tennessee.
ANSWER: Nashville, Tennessee
32. The Malay Imam Tuan Guru developed a method of writing this language in the Arabic script. Hector
Pietersen died in a protest over this language’s use in schools, and writers including Breyten Breytenbach
and Andre Brink used this language. This is the primary language of the Cape Coloured community, and
speakers of this language founded the Orange Free State. For the point, name this variant of Dutch that is
an official language of South Africa.
ANSWER: Afrikaans (prompt on Dutch)

33. This state’s KBWG radio station frequently uses the Blackfoot language. Going-to-the-Sun Road runs
through a national park in this state, which borders a park named for the Waterton Lakes. An aristocracy
dominated by the Anaconda Copper Company and centered on the city of Butte once dominated this
state’s politics. This state’s largest city, but not its capital, is Billings. For the point, name this Rocky
Mountain state with its capital at Helena.
ANSWER: Montana

34. The transit system in this country’s capital was built by fruit magnate Minor Keith. This country’s
East contains its majority-black Limon province, and this country’s main airport is in its city of Liberia.
This country is nicknamed the “Switzerland of Central America” for its relatively high degree of wealth
and because it has not fought a war since 1946. For the point, name this Central American country with
its capital at San Jose.
ANSWER: Costa Rica

35. A January 2019 study showed that this animal switched to its characteristic diet 5000 years ago, likely
in response to human pressures. This animal’s habitat is protected by the Wolong Nature Reserve. The
city of Chengdu, located near its primary habitat, is the location of an annual festival dedicated to this
animal. This animal serves as the logo of the World Wildlife Federation. For the point, name this large
bamboo-eating ailuropod native to China.
ANSWER: giant panda [prompt on panda]

Backup

The city of Holyhead is located on this country’s largest offshore island. This country contains the
national parks of Brecon Beacons and Snowdonia. Offa’s Dike separates this country from its eastern
neighbor, while its northwest corner is indented by the Menai Strait. The Plaid Cymru party seeks
independence for this country, and the Bristol Channel separates this country’s city of Swansea from
another country. This country’s flag features a green and white field with a red dragon. For the point,
name this constituent country of the United Kingdom with its capital at Cardiff.
ANSWER: Wales [prompt on United Kingdom, do not accept or prompt on England]
	  
