   International Geography Bee 2019 US National Championships
                  Varsity & Junior Varsity Division
                                              Round 3
1. A city on this body of water was a national capital before it was burned in a retreat by Charles
Frederick Henningsen. Bluefields and Punta Brito would be connected by a hypothetical route through
this body of water, whose islands include Zapatera and Ometepe. A Hong Kong company has planned a
canal that would bypass the Panama Canal and pass through this body of water. For the point, name this
lake that shares its name with a country with its capital at Managua.
ANSWER: Lake Nicaragua [accept Nicaragua Canal]

2. From 1991-1995, this country’s former flag featured a horizontal red stripe with white fields above and
below it. The Pripet Marshes occupy much of this country’s south, and it’s not france, but this country’s
city of Brest is located on the Bug River. This country’s lowest point is along the upper stretches of the
Neman River. This country’s city of Grodno was among those afflicted by high cancer rates after
radiation from a neighboring country’s Chernobyl explosion drifted north over this country. For the point,
name this Eastern European country where the Minsk Accords were signed.
ANSWER: Belarus

3. The technique of participant-observation in anthropology was created while studying this group by
Frank Hamilton Cushing. John Collier based a set of reforms he named the “Indian New Deal” on this
group’s social organization. This group rebelled against Spanish rule under Po’pay, thus re-instituting the
use of ritual dolls called katsina. This group’s “ancestral” people built early apartment buildings at towns
including Canyon de Chelly and Mesa Verde. For the point, name this group named for the Spanish word
for the “towns” they built.
ANSWER: Pueblo [accept Zuni, Taos, Hopi]

4. Cigarettes enhanced with this spice are nicknamed “kretek” in Indonesia. The island of Ambon was
once the global center of production of this spice until it was prohibited by the Dutch. Plantations for this
spice were the economic mainstay of Zanzibar in the 19th century. Along with cinnamon, orange, and
nutmeg, this spice is used in mulled wine. For the point, name this spice frequently used in Christmas
dishes along with nutmeg.
ANSWER: cloves
5. It isn’t Nicaragua or Bolivia, but William Walker created a short-lived independent republic named for
this region after he captured La Paz with 45 men. Centuries earlier, a Jesuit missionary named Eusebio
Kino from the Bishopric of Trent proved this peninsula and the land north of it were not an island. One
can find Cochima cave art in this peninsula’s El Vizcaíno Biosphere Reserve, originally created to protect
local whales. On the southern tip of this peninsula is the famed beach resort Cabo San Lucas. For the
point, name this peninsula that also names a Mexican state with capital at Tijuana.
ANSWER: Baja California [Accept Lower California]

6. Militias controlled by the Toubou people occupy much of this country’s south. This country’s city of
Misrata has historically been the source of several rebellions. Operation Dignity, led by Khalifa al-Haftar,
controls much of this country’s east, and this country’s Great Man-Made River supplies water to its north.
This country’s city of Tobruk served as its interim capital after a 2011 revolution. This country is divided
into regions including Fezzan, Cyrenaica, and Tripolitania. For the point, name this country once ruled by
Muammar Qaddafi.
ANSWER: Libya

7. This region’s city of Leh was formerly the capital of the Buddhist kingdom of Ladakh. Insurgent
groups including Jaish-e-Muhammad and Lashkar-e-Taiba are active in this region. Most of this region’s
population is concentrated in its namesake “vale”, and one part of this region is controlled by a country
that calls it “Azad”, or “free”. This state is combined with Jammu in the name of an Indian state. For the
point, name this mountainous region under dispute between India and Pakistan.
ANSWER: Kashmir

8. The worst circus fire in history took place in 1961 in this city’s suburb of Niteroi. A slum named for
Germany in this city has one of the world’s highest murder rates. This city’s richest residents are
concentrated in its Barra de Tijuca neighborhood. This city’s slums, or favelas, had an elevated police
presence before the 2016 Summer Olympics. For the point, name this city, the capital of Brazil before the
building of Brasilia.
ANSWER: Rio de Janeiro

9. Way stations along one of these systems are named for prominent citizens like Alexander Hamilton,
Joyce Kilmer, and Vince Lombardi. One system of this type has tunnels at Tuscarora and Kittaninny
Mountains, while systems of this type in Florida utilize SunPass RFID transponders. Interstate 76 forms
part of one of these systems named for Pennsylvania, while a more famous example spans the length of
New Jersey. For the point, name this type of limited-access highway that charges costs money to drive on.
ANSWER: turnpikes [prompt on less specific types of highway including interstate, accept toll road]
(do not accept parkway or freeway)

10. This was the largest city established as part of a process called the “March to the South”. This city’s
Chinatown is located in its district of Cho Lon. The tunnels of Cu Chi are located outside this city. This
city was evacuated when the song “White Christmas” was played over its radio stations in Operation
Frequent Wind, and it served as the capital of a state led by Ngo Dinh Diem. For the point, name this city
that was known as Saigon until it was renamed to honor a revolutionary leader, the largest in Vietnam.
ANSWER: Ho Chi Minh City [accept Thanh Pho Ho Chi Minh, Saigon until mention]
11. The Great Plan for the Transformation of Nature led to massive environmental damage in this body of
water. The Dike Kokaral divided this body of water. This body of water bordered the Karakalpakstan
region. The Amu’Darya and Syr’Darya rivers flowed into this body of water. The site of this body of
water is home to several above-ground “ship graveyards”, and it divided into four sections in the 2000s.
For the point, name this rapidly shrinking body of water in Central Asia.
ANSWER: Aral Sea

12. The English place-name suffix “-wich” indicates that a location was used to produce this good, and
the city of Aigues-Mortes in Provence was a global hub for the production of this good. This good could
be produced in pools called sebkhas. A mine of this good in Wieliczka, Poland has a church carved into it,
and this good was uniquely not used in the production of stockfish. This good’s use as a preservative led
to it becoming one of the premodern era’s most valuable trade goods. For the point, name this good that
can be produced by evaporating seawater.
ANSWER: salt

13. One apartment building in this city had trees integrated into its design after its mayor gave the
architect Friedensreich Hundertwasser license to design a building. This city’s mayor, Karl Luger, was
responsible for demolishing its medieval walls. A shade of yellow is named for this city’s Schonbrunn
Palace, and this city’s Spanish Riding school exhibits Lipizzaner stallions. This city was the seat of a
“dual monarchy” that was united with Hungary in the 19th century. For the point, name this capital of
Austria.
ANSWER: Vienna

14. The Laguna Copperplate Inscription is an ancient document that documents trade links on this island.
The Huk Guerrilla movement was primarily active on this island. This island’s Ifugao Terraces are a
UNESCO World Heritage Site. The Ilocano languages are primarily spoken on this island. This island
contains the Malacanang Palace and the Bataan Peninsula. For the point, name this island on which
Quezon City and Manila are located, the most populous in the Philippines.
ANSWER: Luzon

15. This island’s rulers ruled from the Beit al-Sahel palace and founded the House of Wonders museum.
Those rulers were overthrown on this island by a revolution led by the Afro-Arab Party. Mafia Island is
off the coast of this island, and Pemba Island is located to its south. The Sultanate of Oman relocateditss
court to this island to be closer to its primary sources of income. This island was unified with Tanganyika
to form the modern country that controls it. For the point, name this island off the coast of Tanzania.
ANSWER: Zanzibar [accept Unguja, Pemba until mention]

16. Rene Maran’s anti-colonial novel Batouala was inspired by his experiences in a colony that became
this country. Under French colonial rule, this modern country was named for the Ubangi and Chari rivers
that flow through it. This country’s government has clashed for years with Seleka rebels, and the Sango
language is co-official in this country. For the point, name this African country with its capital at Bangui
located, as the name would suggest, roughly in the middle portion of Africa.
ANSWER: Central African Republic
17. Many antique shops and bed & breakfasts can be found near Putnam and Windham in this state’s
“quiet corner,” while its northwest is dominated by the Litchfield Hills. A border dispute between this
state and its northern neighbor resulted in the “Southwick Jog” near Granby, while its southwestern
panhandle includes Darien and Stamford, part of Fairfield County. CIGNA and Travelers are among the
insurance companies headquartered in this state’s capital, while P.T. Barnum served as mayor of its city
of Bridgeport. For the point, name this state whose namesake river flows through Hartford.
ANSWER: Connecticut

18. This island’s Upper Florentine Valley is an area of old-growth forest controversially controlled by a
forestry company. In one conflict on this island, settlers formed a human chain across it and killed anyone
they caught in that chain. This island’s Port Arthur mass shooting led its country to introduce strict gun
control laws. This island was known as Van Diemen’s land before a name change honoring another Dutch
explorer. For the point, name this island with its capital at Hobart, which makes up Australia’s smallest
state.
ANSWER: Tasmania [accept Van Diemen’s Land before mention]

19. This country’s Yi River has its source in its Cuchillo Grande Highlands. This country’s Eastern
border passes through the Lagoon of Mirim. This country maintains the Artigas research station in
Antarctica. The name of this country’s city of Treinta y Tres references the “Thirty-three orientals” who
declared its independence. This country was the first in the world to legalize recreational marijuana. The
Rio de la Plata separates this country from its Southwestern neighbor. For the point, name this South
American country with its capital at Montevideo.
ANSWER: Uruguay

20. This city's Jobbers Canyon neighborhood was demolished to build the now-former headquarters of
Conagra Foods. That site is located near the revitalized Old Market neighborhood and TD Ameritrade
Park, home of the College World Series and the Creighton University baseball team. Investing guru
Warren Buffett is known as the sage of this city. This city is connected by Interstate 80 to Council Bluffs,
Iowa across the Missouri River to the east, as well as to its state's capital, Lincoln. For the point, name
this most populous city in Nebraska.
ANSWER: Omaha, Nebraska

21. This city’s Congo Square formerly served as a meeting ground for slaves. In the late 2000s, this city
replaced all of its public schools with charters, becoming the first in the US to do so. One ex-mayor of
this city, Ray Nagin, was imprisoned for corruption after presiding over the destruction of this city’s
Ninth Ward in a flood. This city is nicknamed “the crescent city” for its layout on a bend in the
Mississippi River. For the point, name this largest city in Louisiana.
ANSWER: New Orleans
22. Members of one of this ethnic group’s militia committed the Shell House Massacre against a rival
party. This ethnic group’s current king, Goodwill Zwelithini, received a raise in 2018 after complaining
that “the media don’t understand how I live”. This ethnic group forms the majority of supporters of the
Inkatha Party. This ethnic group now names a province formerly known as Natal. For the point, name this
ethnic group, the largest in South Africa.
ANSWER: amaZulu

23. Matvei Berman and Naftaly Frenkel supervised the construction of a famously deadly one of these
structures. Nikolai Yezhov was famously airbrushed out of a photo taken by one of these landmarks after
being purged. The city of Volgo-Donskoy is named for one of these structures it was built on. One of
these structures in the arctic was dug by hand by gulag labor. For the point, name these structures, one of
which connected the White Sea and the Baltic Sea.
ANSWER: canals

24. This province’s opposition Wildrose Party is named for its provincial flower. Medicine Hat is a
prominent railroad town in this province’s east. This province’s city of Fort McMurray was largely
destroyed by a wildfire in 2016, and this province’s largest city hosts the world’s largest rodeo every July,
known as its namesake “Stampede”. For the point, name this province with its largest city at Calgary and
its capital at Edmonton.
ANSWER: Alberta

25. This city’s Latino neighborhood of Pilsen was a center of Czech immigration in the 19th century. The
demolition of this city’s Meigs Field airport was unpopular in the 1990s. The architect Daniel Burnham
designed a plan of this city. This city’s Lake Shore Drive connects its North and South sides. This city’s
downtown is located in a high-traffic area called “the loop”. For the point, name this city on Lake
Michigan, the largest in Illinois.
ANSWER: Chicago, Illinois

26. The top of one temple in this country is decorated with two eyes under a canopy. This country’s
lowland Terai region is its most densely populated. This country fought a Maoist insurgency in a war that
led to the overthrow of its Shah Dynasty. This country’s capital is home to the Boudhanath Temple. A
notable landmark in this country is located in its Sagarmatha National Park and can be climbed using
routes such as the Western Cwm. For the point, name this country that, along with its northern neighbor,
is home to Mt. Everest.
ANSWER: Nepal

27. This country’s Lion House is the ancestral home of its elite Capildeo family, and it was once home to
the colony of New Courland. This country’s major cities include Chaguanas and Arima, and this country
is separated from another to the South by the Serpent’s Mouth and the Gulf of Paria. This country
contains the southernmost of the Windward Islands. The soca and calypso genres of music originated in
this country. For the point, name this Caribbean country consisting of two primary islands with its capital
at Port-of-Spain.
ANSWER: Trinidad and Tobago [prompt on Trinidad]
28. Linguistic diversity on this island has led it to be proposed as a site of the Austronesian languages’
origin. This island’s Fort Zeelandia was captured by an expedition that established the Kingdom of
Tungning under Koxinga. Major cities on this island include Kaohsiung and Tainan, and this island was
known as Formosa under colonial rule. For the point, name this island, which China claims as a province,
with its capital at Taipei.
ANSWER: Taiwan

29. This city’s center abuts a bay called the IJ [pr. eye]. Siegfried Nassuth designed an innovative
Modernist suburb for this city known as Bijlmermeer. This city’s Vondelpark and Beatrixpark are major
tourist attractions. Tourist overcrowding in this city’s red-light district of De Wallen has become a serious
problem. This city contains the Rijksmuseum, and this city’s canals include the Prinsengracht, the
location of its Anne Frank Huis. For the point, name this capital of the Netherlands.
ANSWER: Amsterdam

30. Subchains of this archipelago include the Near and Fox Islands, and this archipelago contains a
sanctuary for the endangered Steller’s Sea Cow. The city of Dutch Harbor in this archipelago was
fortified during World War II, during which this archipelago’s islands of Attu and Kiska were occupied
by Japan. This archipelago, along with Hawai’i, is the namesake of a time zone two hours behind Alaska
time. For the point, name this island chain that spans the Bering Sea and makes up the westernmost
portion of Alaska.
ANSWER: Aleutian Islands

31. The National Water Carrier transfers water from this northern lake and other sites like Banias Falls to
the more populous south. The failure of the Bar Kokhba Revolt led to much of the local religious
intellengisia to relocate north to a the city of Tiberias along this lake. This lowest freshwater lake on earth
is also known as the Sea of Kinneret, which comes from the Hebrew word for lyre. Along this body of
water, a man supposedly fed 5,000 people with five loaves of bread and two fish. For the point, name this
freshwater lake in Israel connected to the Dead Sea by the River Jordan.
ANSWER: Sea of Galilee [Accept Kinnereth or Kinneret before mentioned; Accept Lake Tiberias
before mentioned]

32. This island’s cities of Gournia and Malia were both the sites of ancient palaces. The sport of bull-
leaping is mainly known from murals on this island. One script used on this island is known only from a
circular fragment of pottery, the Phaistos Disk. The Linear A script was used on this island. This island is
home to the Palace at Knossos, likely the headquarters of its Minoan Civilization. For the point, name this
largest island in Greece.
ANSWER: Crete

33. One propagandist named for this city was noted for quotes such as “our initial assessment is that they
will all die. That propagandist was nicknamed this city’s “Bob”. A river in this city legendarily ran black
with ink after a sack by Hulagu Khan. A predominantly Shia slum in this city was renamed after the cleric
Muqtada al-Sadr. This city’s “green zone” was home to international diplomats during a military
occupation of its country. For the point, name this city on the Tigris River, the capital of Iraq.
ANSWER: Baghdad
34. This state’s city of Bath was its colonial capital. This state was allegorized as “Catawba” in one work
of literature. A group of Cherokee who escaped Indian removal live in this state. The Lumbee are a
triracial isolate people in this state. This state’s barbeque, as well as that of its Southern neighbor, uses a
vinegar-based sauce. This state’s “research triangle” contains its cities of Durham and Chapel Hill as well
as its capital. For the point, name this state with its capital at Raleigh.
ANSWER: North Carolina

35. Ferries connect this island to Shelter Island, which is located in the mouth of the Peconic River. This
island contains the largest town in the United States at Hempstead. This island’s namesake railroad has
termini including Greenport and Port Washington. The western portion of this island contains Nassau
County, and its Eastern end contains the city of Montauk. The Hamptons is an upper-class area on this
island. For the point, name this island that contains the New York boroughs of Queens and Brooklyn.
ANSWER: Long Island
	  
Backup	  
	  
The bauxite rich Bakhuis Mountains are in this nation’s district of Sipaliwini. Alexander III of
Russia arbitrated a dispute between two European powers, setting this nation’s eastern border at
the Maroni River. This former colony sees the prolific use of the Sranan Tongo creole language,
a mixture of Dutch, Hindustani, Javanese, and native languages. For the point, name this South
American nation bordered by French Guiana and Guyana that has its capital at Paramaribo. 	  
ANSWER: Republic of Suriname	  
	  
