   International Geography Bee 2019 US National Championships
                  Varsity & Junior Varsity Division
                                        SEMIFINALS

1. This country’s economy is almost entirely dependent on cashew exports, and the Bijagos
Archipelago is part of this country. Along with an archipelago (+) off its coast, Amilcar Cabral
established the PAIGC to fight for this country’s independence. This modern country on the
African (*) mainland was governed by Portugal together with the nearby Cabo Verde Islands. For the
points, name this West African country partially named for its capital, located south of Senegal.
ANSWER: Guinea-Bissau

2. A species of tiger named for this body of water was overhunted for Roman gladiatorial games
and declared extinct in 2003. In Arabic sources, this body of water is sometimes named for the (+)
Khazar people, who inhabited its basin in the middle ages. A brackish lagoon on this body of water
is known as the Karabogazkol and contains a port named for (*) Sapurmanat Niyazov. The sultanate
of Tabarestan was located on the South end of this body of water. For the points, name this saline body of
water in Central Asia, the largest lake on earth.
ANSWER: Caspian Sea

3. Tamarind stew is a dish native to this island chain. The “Little sisters” are a sub-chain of this
island group. This group’s islands include Jost Van (+) Dyke and one named for it followed by the
word “Gorda”. Major cities in this island chain include Road Town and (*) Charlotte Amalie, and
part of this island chain was a Danish possession until it was sold in 1917. For the points, name this island
chain that includes St. John, St. Thomas, and St. Croix, and is split between American and British
territories.
ANSWER: Virgin Islands [accept British Virgin Islands before “Charlotte Amalie;” prompt on Lesser
Antilles]
4. Teddy Afro is a pioneer of this city’s music scene, integrating reggae into its traditional music
styles. This city’s Meskel Square hosts an annual religious festival. This city is served by Bole
International Airport, and its recently opened (+) metro, constructed with Chinese funding, is the
first on its continent. This city contains St. George’s (*) Cathedral, named for its country’s patron
saint. This city, whose name means “new star”, was founded as a capital by Empress Taytu. The African
Union is based in this city. For the points, name this capital of Ethiopia.
ANSWER: Addis Ababa

5. One novel from this country depicts journalists from its largest newspaper, the Gleaner, and uses
the name “Copenhagen City” for its capital’s largest slum, Tivoli Gardens. The island of Palisadoes
in that capital’s harbor was a base of (+) Captain Henry Morgan, and was the site of Emperor
Haile Selassie’s arrival in this non-African country. That arrival is a holiday in a (*) religion from
this country that worships Jah and uses ganja, or marijuana, in its rituals. For the point, name this
Caribbean country where Rastafarianism developed in the capital, Kingston.
ANSWER: Jamaica

6. This country’s calling code, 503, is frequently used to signal allegiance to its gangs, along with
devil horns. This country’s cities include San (+) Miguel and Santa Ana. St. Oscar Romero was a
canonized bishop from this country’s capital. In the late 1960s, this country fought the (*) “soccer
war” with its northern neighbor. Besides Belize, this country is the only one in its region not to border
both the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. For the points, name this Central American country with its capital
at San Salvador.
ANSWER: El Salvador

7. Along this river, a skull often used to support theories that Europeans arrived in the Americas
before Native Americans was found at the town of Kennewick. A national forest named for
conservationist Gifford (+) Pinchot is located on this river. This river’s gorge overlooks Mt.
Hamilton and Mt. (*) Hood. The Grand Coulee Dam is the largest on this river, and this river has
tributes including the Snake. For the points, name this river that forms part of the border between
Washington and Oregon, the largest in the Pacific Northwest.
ANSWER: Columbia River

8. One structure of this type is located on top of the Battery Parking Garage and is known as
"Tribute in Light." Structures of this type include one that opened in fall 2011 designed by Daniel
(+) Libeskind and another located 60 miles southeast of Pittsburgh. The site of this type located in
Arlington, Virginia has 184 benches and is located adjacent to the (*) Pentagon, while the most
notable of these sites is in Lower Manhattan and features pools in the footprint of two former skyscrapers.
For the points, name these sites that honor the nearly 3,000 victims of a set of 2001 terrorist attacks.
ANSWER: memorials to the September 11 attacks [accept 9/11 for “September 11”]
9. The Krimchak language was spoken historically in this region, where the Kingdom of Theodoro
was established by remnants of the (+) Gothic people. This region’s Tatars make up most of its
Muslim minority, and this region is located South of the Isthmus of (*) Perekop. This region is
located east of the Gulf of Kerch, and west of the Sea of Azov. This region contains the naval bases of
Simferopol and Sebastopol. For the points, name this region, a peninsula annexed by Russia from Ukraine
in 2014.
ANSWER: Crimea (accept Krim)

10. The Goro mine is located in one of this country’s territories, which produces 10% of the world’s
nickel. The city of Mata (+) Utu is the capital of one of this country’s territories, the Wallis and
Futuna Islands. The Kanak people inhabit one of this country’s Pacific territories, and another of
this country’s territories is divided into archipelagos including the Tuamotu, Society, and (*)
Marquesas. For the points, name this country where a “no” vote in an independence referendum in New
Caledonia was urged by the President, Emmanuel Macron.
ANSWER: France

11. One chicken dish prepared in this city is named for a slang term for a male virgin. One
skyscraper in this city had its design inspired by a Bai (+) Juyi poem describing the sound of the
pipa as “like pearls”. This city draws its water supply from the Huangpu River. The (*) Wu dialect
is mostly spoken around this city. This city is divided into Pudong and Puxi districts. For the points, name
this city in the Yangtze River delta, once China’s largest.
ANSWER: Shanghai

12. One corporate headquarters in this city is a tower shaped like four massive car cylinders. This
city’s Residenz Museum was formerly the treasury of one of its royal palaces, which include (+)
Nymphenburg and the Maximilianeum. The Dachau concentration camp was located to the
northwest of this city, which is bisected by the Isar River. This city’s (*) Thereseinwiese hosts the
oldest Oktoberfest celebration. For the points, name this German city, the capital of Bavaria, in which the
1972 Olympics were held.
ANSWER: Munich [accept Munchen]

13. Piracy is widespread in this body of water’s Riau archipelago. The cities of Port Klang and
Medan are on this body of water’s coast. (+) Phuket Island is used by geographers to define the
northern limit of this body of water. A canal across the Isthmus of (*) Kra is intended to undercut
traffic through this body of water. This body of water must be passed through to reach ports such as
Singapore. For the points, name this body of water that separates peninsular Malaysia and Sumatra.
ANSWER: Strait of Malacca [prompt on Andaman Sea or Indian Ocean before “northern”]
14. One portion of this body of water is known as the Isis, and its eastern end is marked by the
Nore. The Grand Union Canal begins on the north shore of this body of water. A (+) flood barrier
was installed on this body of water in 1984 two miles east of the Isle of Dogs. This river, which
begins near Cirencester, flows past Reading, (*) Oxford, and Windsor. Crossings of this river include
the Millennium Footbridge and the famous Tower Bridge. For the points, name this English river that
flows through London.
ANSWER: River Thames

15. During a jihadist occupation, librarians in this city would hide scrolls in traditional robes called
grand boubou. A picture of a king holding a (+) golden orb appears on the Catalan Atlas on top of
this city. The Djinguerber madrasa was part of a university complex in this city, (*) Sankore. Ansar
Dine briefly occupied this ancient city in the mid-2010s. This city was the capital of rulers called mansas.
For the points, name this Malian city, once the capital of the Mali Empire.
ANSWER: Timbuktu [accept Tombouctou]

16. One of these structures commemorates the Indian judge Radhabinod Pal. One of these
structures is split into two halves that are each torn down and (+) rebuilt every 20 years. A visit by
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to one of these structures caused a diplomatic incident with China in
2007. That structure is located at (*) Yasukuni, and the Ise Grand is the most important of these
structures. For the points, name these structures where torii gates are often found and which are used for
the worship of kami.
ANSWER: Shinto Shrines

17. Korean fried chicken is served with this food at a Philadelphia restaurant named for “Federal”
this food. This food may have been invented when the sea captain (+) Hanson Gregory stored a
snack he was eating on a prong of his ship’s rudder. The chef Dominique Ansel invented a dish that
fuses this food with a (*) croissant. This food traditionally comes in a denser “cake” variant. For the
points, name this food that can be served “glazed” and names a restaurant chain frequently abbreviated
“dunkin”.
ANSWER: donut

18. The 2014 documentary The Overnighters was about employees in this industry. A region named
for Elm Coulee is a center of this industry. This industry has led to the rapid expansion of towns
like Watford City and (+) Williston. This industry frequently targets regions named for Dimock
and (*) Bakken. This industry extracts its product from shale or tar sands. This industry uses the
controversial technique of hydraulic fracking. For the points, name this industry that outputs
hydrocarbons.
ANSWER: oil industry [accept fracking, shale oil]
19. The intersection of Wentworth and Cermak is the centerpoint of one of these places. The first of
these places is widely held to have been the Parian district of (+) Manila. These places are the
namesake of a low-cost bus service in New York. Gathering places called tong were frequently built
in these locations. One of these places in San (*) Francisco was located near Angel Island, where many
of the immigrants who settled in them were processed. For the points, name these places where
immigrants from cities such as Beijing and Shanghai settle.
ANSWER: Chinatowns

20. One landform of this type is named for the “stockaded” appearance of its geology; that is its (+)
“staked” example. A “high” example of these landforms occupy much of the Central (*) United
States. Another landform of this type was nicknamed the “Great American Desert”. For the points, name
this biome, a “Great” example of which spans much of the states of Nebraska, Kansas, and Oklahoma.
ANSWER: Plains (accept Llanos, High Plains, Staked Plains, Llano Estacado)

21. An upscale business district in this city is centered on Tehran Street. A set of eight gates in this
city’s wall were built in wood in the (+) 14th century; only one of those gates, the “Great Southern
Gate”, remains. An elite university in this city, Ehwa, only admits women. A 1960s economic
miracle is named for the (*) Han River that passes through this city. A 2012 viral song by PSY is named
for this city’s district of Gangnam. For the points, name this capital of South Korea.
ANSWER: Seoul

22. The Lumfardo language is an Italian-based creole spoken around this city. The Torre de la (+)
Inglaterra in this city commemorates English help in its country’s war of independence, and the
Mothers of the Plaza (*) de Mayo are a protest group active in this city that opposes government actions
taken in the “Dirty War”. This city’s Boca Juniors is its most popular soccer club. For the points, name
this city on the Rio de la Plata, the capital of Argentina.
ANSWER: Buenos Aires

23. A bronze bust of sculptor and goldsmith Benvenuto Cellini sits on top of a fountain at this
location, and it was produced to honor the 400th anniversary of his birth. Due to the murder of a
man named (+) Buondelmonti at this structure’s entrance, it was the site of a 1215 urban brawl
between the Guelphs and the Ghibellines. This structure that crosses the (*) Arno River often hosts
games of calcio storico, a mixture of soccer and rugby, and has many shopfronts on it. The Vasari
Corridor passes above this bridge, and that corridor connect the Palazzo Vecchio to other parts of the city.
For the points, name this structure in Florence which translates to “Old Bridge” in Italian.
ANSWER: Ponte Vecchio

24. A reporter for the German newspaper Der Spiegel was fired for writing a completely fabricated
piece on this state’s city of Fergus Falls. Cities named for members of this state’s Santee Sioux
nation include Shakopee and (+) Mankato. This state’s Mesabi Range is a center of iron mining,
and the Rainy River and the Lake of the (*) Woods mark this state’s northern boundary. This state’s
largest metro area includes Prince’s former studio, Paisley Park, and the Mall of America. For the points,
name this state whose “Twin Cities” include its capital of St. Paul.
ANSWER: Minnesota
25. The Splendid Palace Hotel is on the Big Island of Princes archipelago in this city. This city’s
Karakoy neighborhood is home to the Camondo Stairs and the medieval (+) Galata Tower. This
city’s Gezi Park was the site of protests when its demolition was threatened in 2013 near (*) Taksim
Square. This city’s Topkapi Palace lies on the south side of the Golden Horn inlet, overlooking the
Bosporus Strait. For the points, name this city that straddles the Europe-Asia border, the most populous in
Turkey.
ANSWER: Istanbul

26. Speakers of this language use a shade of paint called Haint Blue to repel ghosts. A book by
Lorenzo Turner is the main source for information on this language. This language developed on a
tract of land set aside by (+) Special Field Order No. 15. This language is also known as Geechee,
possibly named for (*) Georgia’s Ogeechee River. This was the native language of supreme court justice
Clarence Thomas. For the points, name this African-derived creole language spoken in South Carolina’s
Sea Islands.
ANSWER: Gullah (accept Geechee before mention)

27. The Cliff of Angavo runs down much of this country’s Western coast and was home to its
precolonial Betsimaraka kingdom. This country controls Juan de (+) Nova Island, and its Tsingy de
Bemaraha National Park contains a forest of stone needles. This country’s inhabitants speak the
Westernmost Malayo-(*) Polynesian language, and this country is the world’s largest producer of
vanilla. This island is home to animals such as the fossa and the ring-tailed lemur. For the points, name
this island country with its capital at Antananarivo.
ANSWER: Madagascar

28. One group of these in the Middle East is partially owned by Pamela Anderson, and a major
world power is looking to create more of these near the Nine-Dashed Line. (+) China has attempted
to turn places such as Fiery Cross Reef and Scarborough Shoal into areas that meet international
maritime law’s definition of these places, and a sluggish real estate development of this type is
shaped like the (*) continents of the World. For the points, name these structures including the Palm
Jumeirah and Palm Jebel Ali, which were built in Dubai by pouring sand into water until it rose above the
surface.
ANSWER: artificial islands

29. The Ninnis Glacier is named for a lieutenant who died on this country’s namesake Antarctic
expedition. That expedition was led by Douglas (+) Mawson, who names one of this country’s
Antarctic research stations. The territory of Terre Adelie separates the two sections of this
country’s Antarctic Territory, and this country controls (*) McDonald and Heard Islands off the
Antarctic coast. For the points, name this country with the largest Antarctic territorial claim, based
partially on frontage from its state of Victoria.
ANSWER: Australia
30. Settlers from the city of Placentia played a role in exterminating this island’s native Beothuk
people. This island’s Long Range Mountains stretch into its Northern Peninsula, and the (+) Strait
of Belle Isle separates this island from the mainland. The French territory of (*) St. Pierre and
Miquelon lies off the coast of this island, and this island contains its province’s capital at St. John’s. For
the points, name this island paired with the mainland region of Labrador in a Canadian maritime province.
ANSWER: Newfoundland

31. One of this religion’s temples at Nankana was the target of a massacre in 1919. The region of
Ramgarhia is centered on a city named for one of this religion’s leaders. This religion’s adherents
have attempted to (+) secede and form the Republic of Khalistan, and this religion’s most holy site
was the target of Operation (*) Blue Star; that site is the Golden Temple in Amritsar. For the points,
name this religion whose founder, Guru Nanak, lived in Punjab.
ANSWER: Sikhism

32. A topminnow and a “monster” are named for one region of this desert. Eusebio Kino
established a series of missions in this desert. (+) Hermosillo is the capital of this desert’s namesake
state. Native peoples in this desert include the Tohono O’Odham and the (*) Yaqui, and Organ Pipe
Cactus National Monument is located in this desert. For the points, name this desert that shares its name
with a Northwestern Mexican state and is located partially in Arizona.
ANSWER: Sonoran Desert

33. This city's Mandela Parkway was built on the site of the Cypress Street viaduct, which was
destroyed in a 1989 (+) earthquake. The second-oldest underwater automobile tunnel in the United
States connects this city to a neighboring island. In addition to the Posey Tube, the Caldecott
Tunnel connects this city to (*) Orinda. The downtown section of this city is flanked by Lake Merritt
and the waterfront Jack London Square neighborhood. This city's Coliseum area includes the homes of
Golden State Warriors and the Athletics baseball team. For the points, name this California city across the
bay from San Francisco.
ANSWER: Oakland, California

34. Description acceptable. Del Webb is notable for establishing several of these places. A massive
one of these places is responsible for the (+) rightward shift of voting patterns in Polk County,
Florida. That one of these places is the Villages. The sport of (*) Pickleball was initially popularized at
these places, which are popular in warm regions like Florida and Arizona. For the points, name these
places where senior citizens frequently move after finishing work.
ANSWER: retirement communities [accept equivalents]

35. In a pair of sculptures, a river that this city used to dispose its trash is represented “chained” as
an old man and “free” as a woman spinning cloth. The African Methodist Episcopal Church was
founded in this city. This city’s police department bombed a (+) rowhouse occupied by the black
liberation group MOVE. This city is served by the Market-Frankford and Broad Street Lines, part
of its (*) SEPTA transit system, and the Schuylkill River meets the Delaware River in this city. For the
points, name the most populous city in Pennsylvania, nicknamed the “City of Brotherly Love”.
ANSWER: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
