2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                    Round 5



(MS) Geography Bee Round 5
Regulation Tossups
(1)     This city's Elf Tower is sometimes called the Nabemba Tower after its country's
highest point. This city is surrounded by its country's Pool Department, named for a natural
feature that includes Mbamou Island. This city was the capital of French Equatorial Africa,
and a railroad connects Pointe-Noire to this city to bypass Livingstone Falls. Connected to
Kinshasa by ferry, for the point, what is this capital of the Republic of the Congo?

ANSWER: Brazzaville

(2)     This feature, that forms Point Roberts's northern border, also passes through
Charles de Gaulle Airport and the International Peace Garden. The chant "54-40 or Fight"
was used to rally against the use of this feature as a political boundary, which was
disregarded when maneuvering around Vancouver Island when the Oregon Treaty was
signed. For the point, name this parallel that forms much of the US-Canada border.

ANSWER: 49th Parallel North (accept US-Canada Boundary before "Airport" is mentioned)

(3)     The entirety of this archipelago was formerly claimed by the Free Territory of
Freedomland, and today it is claimed by the city of Sansha. A U.S. military commander
described recent activities on this archipelago's Mischief and Subi Reefs as the creation of a
"Great Wall of Sand." The "nine-dash line" claims the entirety of this archipelago which is
also claimed by other countries including Vietnam. For the point, name this disputed South
China Sea archipelago, known for its many artificial islands.

ANSWER: Spratly Islands

(4)     An attempt to remove these locations led to the establishment of the Cidade de
Deus. One of these locations, named Rocinha, was formerly controlled by the Amigos dos
Amigos organization, which shot down a police helicopter over another one of these
locations called Morro dos Macacos. Lula da Silva encouraged tourism in these locations,
some of which are situated on hills overlooking Copacabana. For the point, name these
slums prevalent in Rio de Janeiro.

ANSWER: Favelas (prompt on "slums," "shantytowns," or similar answers)

(5)     This mountain's namesake "abbey" is the first Zen house of worship established by a
woman in the United States. This mountain, that overlooks the towns of Weed and Yreka
[["why"-REE-kah]], forms a major protected area with Trinity National Forest. This
mountain, home to Whitney Glacier, is occasionally visible from the Central Valley. For the
point, name this second-highest peak in the Cascades, located in Northern California.

ANSWER: Mount Shasta
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                    Round 5


(6)     This city's Kop van Zuid [[ZUHD]] neighborhood hosts the Hotel New York, which
formerly housed the offices of a major cruise company, since acquired by Carnival. This
city's Euromast tower overlooks the Cube Houses and the Erasmus Bridge, which crosses
the Nieuwe Maas [[NYOO-veh MAHSS]]. This city in the Rhine River Delta contains the
world's busiest port outside of Asia. Forming an urban area with the Hague, for the point,
what is this major Dutch port?

ANSWER: Rotterdam

(7)     Washington Island forms part of the eastern boundary of this body of water, which
is located west of a strait called "Death's Door." This body of water, whose ports include
Marinette and Escanaba, is enclosed by the Garden and Door Peninsulas. Lake Winnebago
feeds this bay via the Fox River, which flows through its namesake city. For the point, name
this bay that shares its name with the third-most populous city in Wisconsin.

ANSWER: Green Bay (prompt on "Lake Michigan")

(8)    A tri-point boundary at this river's confluence with the Ruak contains the Hall of
Opium, dedicated to the history of the drug in Chiang Rai, part of a region called the "Golden
Triangle." This river forms much of the Thai-Lao boundary. For the point, name this river
that empties into the South China Sea south of Ho Chi Minh City.

ANSWER: Mekong River

(9)     This island chain was the center of a 1946 earthquake that obliterated the Scotch
Cap Light. Once known as the Catherine Archipelago, this island chain includes Rat Island,
ironically now rat-free due to a US eradication program in the 2010s. These islands, which
were invaded and temporarily occupied by the Japanese, include one island named for
Danish-born Russian explorer Vitus Bering. For the point, name this island chain off the
coast of the US state of Alaska.

ANSWER: Aleutian Islands (or Aleut Islands; or Aleutic Islands; or Aleuts)

(10) This city is the headquarters of the United States European Command and is located
in the Neckar Valley, the only urban wine growing area of its country. This city is nicknamed
the "cradle of the automobile industry," headquartering auto parts giants such as Bosch and
Mahle [[MAH-leh]], and its Schlossplatz contains the New Palace. This city is the cultural
center of Swabia and the capital of Baden-Württemberg. For the point, name this German
city, home to the Mercedes-Benz Museum.

ANSWER: Stuttgart
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                    Round 5


(11) This island's Blackgang Chine is the oldest amusement park in its country, and the
Needles are three chalk stacks off the coast of this island nicknamed "Dinosaur Isle." This
island's port Ryde is connected to the mainland by the Red Funnel and Hovertravel ferries.
This island, home to the Osborne House, the retreat and death site of Queen Victoria, is
separated by the Solent from mainland ports in Hampshire like Portsmouth and
Southampton. For the point, name this largest offshore island in England.

ANSWER: Isle of Wight

(12) This country's longest river is the Shire, and this country is nicknamed the "Warm
Heart of Africa" for the friendliness of its people, the plurality of whom are Chewa. This
country's city Blantyre was named after David Livingstone's birthplace, and this country
disputes the shoreline of Lake Nyasa with Tanzania. For the point, name this landlocked
African country that protrudes into Mozambique, governed from Lilongwe.

ANSWER: Republic of Malawi (accept Dziko la Malawi)

(13) From the west, this mountain towers above the Theodul Pass that connects Aosta
Valley       with      the     ski     town      of    Zermatt.      Edward      Whymper
led the first climb of this mountain in 1865, which ended in tragedy when four of his seven
men died, ending the "Golden age of Alpinism." This mountain allegedly inspired the shape
of Toblerone chocolates. For the point, name this iconic Alpine peak between Italy and
Switzerland, known for its pyramidal shape.

ANSWER: Matterhorn (or Cervino)

(14) This city's Rynok Square contains the Black House, known for its darkened
sandstone exterior. This non-Iberian city was the historic capital of Galicia, and this city's
opera house on the Poltva River is named for Solomiya Krushelnytska [[kroo-shel-NEET-
skah]]. This city, formerly known as Lemberg, contains the Potocki Palace and was the
northeasternmost major city of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. For the point, name this
largest city of Western Ukraine, a gateway for refugees into Poland.

ANSWER: Lviv [[luh-VEEV]] (or Lvov [[luh-VAHV]]; accept Lemberg before mentioned)

(15) This country's Brimstone Hill Fortress was considered the "Gibraltar of the
Caribbean" and is overlooked by Mount Liamuiga [[LEE-ah-MWEE-gah]], offering views of
Sint Eustasias [[yoo-STAY-shuss]]. Alexander Hamilton was born in Charlestown in what is
now this country, and its separation from Anguilla in 1983 made it the last country in the
Americas to gain independence from Britain. The smallest country in the Americas, for the
point, what is this country, governed from Basseterre?

ANSWER: Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis (accept Federation of Saint Christopher
and Nevis; prompt on partial answers)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                    Round 5


(16) This polity, where the isolated Pukapukan language is spoken, is known for its
tivaevae [[TEE-vay-vay]] style of quilting, only available for commercial purchase on the
island of Atiu. This country's flag displays 15 stars representing its 15 islands on a blue
ensign with a British canton, and its capital of Avarua lies on Rarotonga. One of the two
countries in "free association" with New Zealand along with Niue, for the point, what is this
island country named for a British explorer?

ANSWER: Cook Islands (accept Kūki 'Āirani; prompt on "New Zealand" before mentioned)

(17) This country's Tigres Island in the Mocamades Desert was formerly a peninsula and
is now abandoned after a pump station at the Cunene River was abandoned. This country
displays a gear wheel and a machete on its red and black flag, and this country's oil-rich
exclave of Cabinda is located between two countries named for the Congo River. For the
point, name this Portuguese-speaking African country governed from Luanda.

ANSWER: Republic of Angola (or Republica de Angola)

(18) This archipelago, known for its endemic Trocaz pigeon, has its highest point at Pico
Ruvio, and Christopher Columbus spent time on its Porto Santo where he got married. This
archipelago, that includes the Desertas and Savage Islands, was first encountered by Prince
Henry the Navigator in 1419, widely considered the first discovery of the Age of Discovery.
With its capital at Funchal, for the point, what is this autonomous region of Portugal?

ANSWER: Autonomous Region of Madeira (or Região Autónoma da Madeira)

(19) This company sponsors and names a cable car that connects Greenwich to the North
Bank of the Thames as well as Arsenal F.C.'s home stadium. This company has its
headquarters at Al Garhoud and operates its cargo operations out of the Al Maktoum
International Airport in Jebel Ali. This airline exclusively owns Boeing 777 and Airbus A380
Aircraft, being the largest operator of each, and operates no domestic flights. For the point,
name this Dubai-based airline that shares its name with its home country.

ANSWER: Emirates Airlines (accept United Arab Emirates; accept Emirates Stadium; do
not accept or prompt on Etihad Airways)

(20) This territory contains Nettilling Lake, the world's largest lake on an island, as well
as Akimiski Island within James Bay. This territory claims the remote Hans Island, disputed
with Denmark, where there is a tradition of leaving either schnapps or whisky to claim
sovereignty. This territory borders Manitoba and the Northwest Territories. For the point,
name this Canadian territory governed from Iqaluit [[ee-KAL-oo-it]] on Baffin Island, mostly
inhabited by the Inuit.

ANSWER: Nunavut
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                      Round 5


(21) This mountain is most commonly ascended via the Polish Glacier and is the world's
highest that can be climbed without technical mountaineering equipment. The closest other
mountain to this mountain that is higher than it is Tirich Mir, at a distance of over 10,000
miles. This mountain is the highest in the Southern Hemisphere and is located near the
Chile-Argentina border. For the point, name this highest mountain of South America.

ANSWER: Aconcagua

(22) An empire in this country that grew out of the Chenla built its capital at
Yasodharapura. A Buddhist temple called Bayon in this country was built by Jayavarman VII
[[the Seventh]]. A temple in this country that contains five towers symbolizing the peaks of
Mount Meru was built by Suryavarman II. The largest religious monument in the world,
which is featured on this country's flag, was built by the Khmer Empire. For the point, name
this Asian country, home to Angkor Wat.

ANSWER: Kingdom of Cambodia (or Preahreacheanachakr Kampuchea)

(23) This city’s name comes from the Portuguese for “lakes,” as the Portuguese were the
first to colonize the region. This city sits on the Ogun River, a holy site in the Yoruba
religion, and the Gulf of Guinea. This city is the site of the NECOM House, the tallest building
in Nigeria. This city was the capital of Nigeria until its move to Abuja [[ah-BOO-jah]] in
1991. For the point, name this most-populous city in Nigeria.

ANSWER: Lagos (or Èkó)

(24) This U.S. state's Wind River Range contains the highest peak of the Rockies outside
Colorado. Oil near this state's Teapot Dome was sold via the bribery of the Harding Cabinet,
and this state's Fort Laramie was the site of two treaties between the U.S. and Native
American tribes. The ski resort Jackson Hole is a gateway to Grand Teton National Park in,
for the point, what rectangular U.S. state that is home to Cheyenne?

ANSWER: Wyoming

(25) The C-2 Visa's restricted travel zone covers a 25-mile radius from this intersection,
home to the USS Maine National Monument and the tallest twin towers in the US at the Time
Warner Center. This intersection contains a replica of the Unisphere in front of its Trump
International Hotel and Tower, address One Central Park West. Lying at the intersection of
Eighth Avenue and Broadway, for the point, what is this New York circle named for a
Genoese sailor?

ANSWER: Columbus Circle
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                     Round 5


(26) A term coined by Alan Freed inspired three words found in the name of this place
found on the shores of a certain lake's North Coast Harbor. This location was established
through the efforts of Ahmet Ertegun [[EHR-teh-gun]], one of the founders of Atlantic
Records. This location contains a section called The Garage, as well as a "Backstage Stories"
exhibit. Chuck Berry and Pete Townshend of The Who broke ground at, for the point, what
I.M. Pei-designed music museum that celebrates inductees of a certain genre?

ANSWER: Rock and Roll Hall of Fame (accept RRHOF; accept Rock Hall)

(27) The "head" and "tail" of this type of animal name two peninsulas on opposite sides
of New Guinea. Papua New Guinea displays the Raggiana variant of "[this animal] of
paradise" on its flag. Brasilia's shape is often likened to one of these animals, which include
species like quetzals and albatrosses. For the point, name these animals, present on the flags
of Louisiana, Egypt, and Mexico.

ANSWER: Birds (accept Aves; accept Bird's Head Peninsula; accept Bird's Tail Peninsula;
accept Bird-of-Paradise; do not accept or prompt on other types of birds)

(28) This country's town Gyrmyzy Gasaba [[gehr-meh-ZEH gah-sah-BAH]] is the only all-
Jewish settlement outside of Israel or the US, a stronghold of the Mountain Jews in the Quba
District. 6000 rock paintings and many mud volcanoes are protected in this country's
Gobustan National Park. This country, home to the world's lowest national capital, is the
northernmost with a Shi'a majority. For the point, name this country between Iran and
Russia.

ANSWER: Republic of Azerbaijan (accept Azarbaycan Respublikasi)

(29) One of this city’s nicknames, “The City of a Hundred Steeples,” is derived from its
proliferation of churches, including four Roman Catholic basilicas. It is perhaps more
appropriate to call this city "la ville aux cent clochers" [[lah VEEL oh SAHNT kloh-SHEH]],
because this city’s official language is French. At its founding, this Canadian city was named
Ville-Marie but later came to be named for a small mountain in the center of the city. For the
point, name this most populous city in the Canadian province of Quebec.

ANSWER: Montreal

(30) This city, surrounded on three sides by Haryana, is part of the National Capital
Region with suburbs such as Faridabad and Ghaziabad. This city's Qutb [[KUHT-buh]] Minar
was inspired by the Minaret of Jam, and its Lotus Temple is a Baha'i House of Worship
known for its flower-like shape. This city on the Yamuna River implemented a lockdown in
2021 due to its air pollution and was formerly the capital of the Mughal Empire. For the
point, name this capital of India.

ANSWER: New Delhi (or Naī Dillī)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                       Round 5


Extra Questions
(1)      The Coptic Church lays claim to the patriarchy of this city, where Ibn Battua twice
visited the crumbling Pharos Lighthouse, one of the Seven Ancient Wonders of the World.
This city's library was built by Ptolemy the Great and contained 400 thousand papyrus
scrolls at its peak. For the point, name this largest city of Egypt outside the Cairo metro area.

ANSWER: Alexandria

(2)     The Lomonosov Ridge divides a basin in this body of water, and marginal seas in
this body of water include the Chukchi and the Barents. Major port cities bordering this
body of water include Murmansk and Arkhangelsk, and walruses and polar bears can be
found on ice floes in this body of water. For the point, name this smallest and shallowest of
the Earth's oceans.

ANSWER: Arctic Ocean (accept Arctic Mediterranean Sea)
