2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                   Round 4



(MS) Geography Bee Round 4
Regulation Tossups
(1)     This county is named for the Piipaash tribe, who live within its Salt River Pima and
Gila River Indian Communities. This county was governed by the self-proclaimed "America's
Toughest Sheriff," Joe Arpaio, until 2017. This county was the largest by population to vote
for Donald Trump in 2016, and the county gave Barry Goldwater the votes he needed to win
his home state. For the point, name this Arizona county governed from Phoenix.

ANSWER: Maricopa County

(2)     Takao Shito runs a farm in the middle of this airport, from which Helsinki is the
busiest European destination. Peach and a Jetstar subsidiary have hubs at this airport, the
construction of which was opposed by socialists and conservative farmers during the
Sanrizuka Struggle. An express train connects this airport in Chiba to greater Kanto. For the
point, name this airport that, along with Haneda, serves Tokyo.

ANSWER: Narita International Airport (or Tokyo-Narita; accept New Tokyo International
Airport before "Tokyo" is mentioned; accept NRT; accept RJAA; prompt on general answers
about a "Tokyo airport")

(3)     Russia's Gyda [[GEE-dah]] Peninsula lies between two of these features formed by
the Yenisei and the Ob. Eddy effects and turbulent mixing uniformly distribute the salinity
of these features, which include one in Istanbul called the Golden Horn. Puget Sound and
Chesapeake Bay are examples of these features typified by brackish water. For the point,
name these partially enclosed bodies of water that receive rivers.

ANSWER: Estuary (prompt on "river" or "river mouth"; prompt on "inlet"; prompt on
"gulf"; do not accept or prompt on "deltas" or "river deltas")

(4)     This area, unofficially named before the completion of One57, contains Steinway
Tower, the most slender skyscraper in the world, as well as the world's three tallest,
primarily residential buildings. The construction of the simplistic 432 Park Avenue drew
controversy in this area, which is primarily located along a stretch of 57th Street. For the
point, name this area of supertall skyscrapers located just south of Central Park, which is
named for its ultra-wealthy Manhattan residents.

ANSWER: Billionaire(s) Row
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                   Round 4


(5)     The Churún [[choo-ROON]] River feeds this waterfall that was named for an aviator
who crash-landed on it in his monoplane El Rio Caroní. Canaima National Park contains
these falls which descend from the top of Auyán-tepui [[ow-YAHN TEP-wee]] in the Gran
Sabana region. Legendarily first discovered by Europeans on Walter Raleigh's journey to
find El Dorado, for the point, what are these falls in Venezuela, the world's tallest?

ANSWER: Angel Falls (accept Salto Ángel; accept Kerepakupai Vená; accept Parakupá
Vená)

(6)    The Race to the Clouds ascends this mountain which is accessible from the east by
the the Barr Trail and from the west by the Broadmoor Cog Railway, the highest train in
North America. This easternmost of the "Fourteeners" offers views of the Garden of the
Gods and was named for an explorer named Zebulon who never reached this mountain's
summit. For the point, identify this Rocky Mountain peak that inspired "America the
Beautiful."

ANSWER: Pikes Peak (accept Pikes Peak International Hill Climb; prompt on "Zebulon
Pike")

(7)     This archipelago's waters contain a sandstone tower named the Old Man of Hoy.
This archipelago is bound on the north by the Fair Isle Channel and on the south by the
Pentland Firth. This archipelago's largest island is simply named the Mainland and contains
the town of Stromness and its administrative center Kirkwall. The archaeological site Skara
Brae is found in, for the point, what Scottish archipelago, located south of the Shetlands?

ANSWER: Orkney Islands (or Orkneys)

(8)     This city is separated from Pimpri-Chinchwad by the Mula River and is nicknamed
the "the Oxford of the East." The sport badminton was originally named for this city by
British expatriates. This city's Shaniwar Wada fortifications are flanked by a statue of Baji
Rao I, who ruled as Peshwa from this city, the final capital of the Maratha Empire. For the
point, name this city which is 75 miles southeast of Mumbai, a notable IT [[I-T]] hub.

ANSWER: Pune (or Poona)

(9)     This city's Grand Mosque was originally converted from a foie gras [[FWAH-GRAH]]
factory. This city was the site of a "Dancing Plague" in 1518 and is known for its Ponts
Couverts [[POHNT koo-VEHR]], or "covered bridges," along the Ill [[ILL]] River. This largest
city of the Grand Est [[GRAHND-EST]] Region contains the European Council and the
European Parliament and is located in Alsace. For the point, name this French city,
separated from Germany by the Rhine.

ANSWER: Strasbourg
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                     Round 4


(10) This island's Akan-Mashu National Park is known for a crystal-clear lake, that
contains large spherical algae called Marimo, as well as its Ainu village. This island contains
the northern terminus of the Seikan Tunnel, the world's longest underwater railway tunnel,
which passes under the Tsugaru Strait. Sapporo is the capital of, for the point, what
northernmost of the main Japanese islands?

ANSWER: Hokkaido (or Hokkaido Circuit Prefecture)

(11) This city contains a "Colgate Clock" near the second-tallest building in its state, the
Goldman Sachs Tower. This city's Exchange Place is often nicknamed "Wall Street West" and
is served by the Paulus Hook Ferry Terminal. An Empty Sky Memorial containing two steel
walls is located in this city's Liberty State Park, which connects to Ellis Island. The seat of
Hudson County, for the point, what is this city, the second-largest in its namesake state
behind Newark?

ANSWER: Jersey City (prompt on "New Jersey")

(12) A town of this name contains Shinnecock Hills, home to America's oldest golf
clubhouse, and is now a popular summer destination on the East End of Long Island. A city
of this name 15 miles northwest of Portsmouth was where the Pilgrims transferred to their
initial journey to America on the Mayflower before being forced to turn back to Plymouth.
For the point, what English city was the departure port for the RMS Titanic?

ANSWER: Southampton

(13) Two pontoon bridges were built across this body of water at Abydos when it was
called the Sea of Helle [[HEH-leh]]. The world's longest suspension bridge, the 1915
Canakkale [[kah-nah-KAH-leh]], was opened in 2022 over this strait, whose ANZAC Cove
housed Australian and Kiwi troops during the Gallipoli Campaign. For the point, name this
Turkish strait that connects the Sea of Marmara to the Aegean Sea.

ANSWER: Dardanelles (accept Hellespont; accept Sea of Helle before mentioned; accept
Canakkale Strait until mentioned; accept Strait of Gallipoli until mentioned)

(14) The Nepean and Phillip Islands are administered by this territory, which is the only
non-American polity south of the Equator to celebrate Thanksgiving. Kingston is the capital
of this territory whose creole language has strong influence from Pitkern, which was
brought over by mutineers on the HMS Bounty. A former penal colony known for its
namesake pine, for the point, what is this Australian island about halfway between New
Caledonia and New Zealand?

ANSWER: Norfolk Island (accept Norf'k Ailen)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                      Round 4


(15) Triloknath Pandit [[trih-LAHK-nith PAHN-dit]] led the first peaceful contact with
these people who may be related to the Jarawa and Onge. Maurice Vidal Portman abducted
six of these people to Port Blair before the death of two elders. This Scheduled Tribe, which
does not practice agriculture, was responsible for the 2018 death of John Allen Chau, an
American Christian missionary. For the point, name this primitive tribe that lives in
isolation on India's Andaman Islands.

ANSWER: Sentinelese (or Sentineli; or North Sentinel Islanders)

(16) Early coins minted in this city by the Boii [[BOY-ee]] Gallic tribe depicted a king
named Biatec, who now appears on the five koruna piece of this city's country. This city
contains a statue of a sewer worker rising out of a manhole, and its Devin Castle overlooks
the terminus of the Morava River. The only capital to border two other countries, for the
point, what is this capital of Slovakia?

ANSWER: Bratislava

(17) This city’s origins can be traced back to the Bani Yas settlements in the Liwa Oasis.
This city's Grand Prix is hosted in its Yas Marina circuit, and its Saadiyat Island contains the
only Asian branch of the Louvre Museum. This city has the world's first graduate-level AI
[[A-I]] research institution which is named after Mohamed bin Zayed. The Etihad Towers
are located in, for the point, what second-largest city in the United Arab Emirates?

ANSWER: Abu Dhabi

(18) This city is formed from the Pyinmana [[PYIN-MUH-NAH]] District and served by
Ayelar Airport, which is the hub of Air Bagan. This city's Uppatasanti Pagoda is almost an
exact replica of its country's Shwedagon Pagoda. A 2021 viral video showed a woman in this
city dancing to EDM music as a military convoy behind her went to overthrow the
government of Aung San Suu Kyi [[CHEE]]. Yangon was replaced as the administrative
capital by, for the point, what planned city in Myanmar?

ANSWER: Naypyidaw (or Nepranytau)

(19) This city's Temara Zoo holds some of the last descendants of the Barbary Lion, and
deported Moriscos who settled in this city's Kasbah of the Udayas formed the Republic of
Salé [[sah-LEH]]. Located on the Bou Regreg River, this city's historic center contains the
Hassan Tower and the Mausoleum of Mohammed V. One of the four imperial cities of its
country along with Meknes, Fez and Marrakesh, for the point, what is this capital of
Morocco?

ANSWER: Rabat (or al-Ribat)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                     Round 4


(20) This peak, which is flanked by Mount Foraker and Moose's Tooth, is often
photographed from Reflection Pond. This mountain was first ascended by Hudson Stuck and
Harry Karstens. The congressional delegation of Ohio tried to block this mountain from
being named for the Athabaskan Koyukon word for "the high one," although Barack Obama
announced it would be renamed in 2015. For the point, name this highest peak in North
America and the US.

ANSWER: Denali (accept Mount McKinley)

(21) This city's Kariakoo market was formerly a major hub of its dala dala transport
system, and this city's districts include Temeke and Kinondoni. Ferries connect this city to
Stone Town on Unguja Island, and this city's name translates to "place of peace" in Arabic.
This city, the former capital of German East Africa and then Tanganyika, was replaced by
Dodoma in 1996. For the point, name this Swahili city, the largest of East Africa and
Tanzania.

ANSWER: Dar es Salaam

(22) Srinagar is the "summer capital" of a namesake union territory of this region, and
Ladakh is another union territory in this region that includes the Chinese-claimed Aksai
Chin portion. This region's Karakoram Range includes K2, the world's second-tallest
mountain, and this region's "winter capital" is Jammu. For the point, name this region at the
western edge of the Himalayas, disputed between northernmost India and Pakistan.

ANSWER: Kashmir (accept Jammu and Kashmir in either order; prompt on "India" or
"Indian Subcontinent")

(23) Neumann Tower is a subsidiary peak of this mountain's Mawenzi volcanic cone.
This mountain was once crowned by the fast-receding Rebmann Glacier, and this mountain
offers a view of nearby Mount Meru. This mountain's highest summit, Uhuru Peak, is located
at its dormant volcanic cone, Kibo. For the point, name this peak in Tanzania, the tallest
mountain in Africa.

ANSWER: Mount Kilimanjaro

(24) This city that is home to suburbs such as Sapulpa and Broken Arrow is the largest
U.S. city that is located completely on Indian land. This city, split between the Osage, Creek,
and Cherokee reservations, is the largest on the Arkansas River. This city's Greenwood
District was home to "Black Wall Street," which was destroyed in a brutal 1921 race
massacre. For the point, name this second-largest city in Oklahoma.

ANSWER: Tulsa (accept Tulsa race massacre, Tulsa pogrom, or Tulsa race riot)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                     Round 4


(25) This country, home to the world's largest population of Bactrian camels, has its
second-largest city at Erdenet, located near Asia's largest copper mine. This country, where
Öndörkhaan was renamed to Chinggis City in 2013, also names a stir-fry style of barbecue.
For the point, name this country between Russia and China, home to the Gobi Desert as well
as many statues of Genghis Khan.

ANSWER: Mongolia (accept Mongol Uls)

(26) This U.S. state, nicknamed the "Crossroads of America," features a torch surrounded
by a circle of stars on its dark blue flag. Purdue University is located along the banks of the
Wabash River in this non-Louisiana state across from Lafayette, and this state's flagship
university is located in Bloomington. The "Fighting Irish" represent Notre Dame University
in this state's city of South Bend. For the point, name this state bordering Lake Michigan,
Kentucky, and Illinois.

ANSWER: Indiana

(27) This peninsula includes administrative divisions like the Orange Walk District, Peten
Department, and Quintana Roo. This peninsula's Chicxulub [[chik-choo-LOOB]] crater was
formed from the asteroid that resulted in the extinction of the dinosaurs, and its resorts
include Tulum and Cancún. Home to Tikal from the Maya Civilization, for the point, what is
this Mexican peninsula that juts into the Caribbean Sea?

ANSWER: Yucatán Peninsula (accept Península de Yucatán)

(28) This feature will shift past the island of Grímsey by the mid-2050s, and every point
on this feature is perpendicular to earth's orbit once per day. An amusement park in
Rovaniemi claims to straddle this feature and is called Santa Claus Village, and all points
north of this feature experience no sunlight on the winter solstice. For the point, name this
line at 66°33′ [[66 degrees 33 minutes]] north, passing through Russia, the US, and Canada.

ANSWER: Arctic Circle (accept 66°33′ North before mentioned; prompt on "Arctic")

(29) This province's town Prince George is nicknamed its "inland capital," and the Hecate
[[HEK-it]] Strait separates it from the Haida Gwaii [[GWY]] archipelago. North America's
largest ski area is this province's Whistler-Blackcomb resort. Containing the source of the
Columbia River, for the point, what is this province governed from Victoria on Vancouver
Island?

ANSWER: British Columbia (or BC)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                     Round 4


(30) This seat of Pulaski County was named by Jean-Baptiste Bénard de la Harpe after
noticing a landmark in the transition between the Mississippi Delta and Ouachita
Mountains. Dwight Eisenhower sent the National Guard to this city's Central High School in
1957, and this city contains Bill Clinton's presidential library. For the point, name this
capital of Arkansas.

ANSWER: Little Rock



Extra Questions
(1)     This mountain's highest peak is Mytikas [[mih-TY-kus]], and its slopes contain the
Chapel of the Prophet Elias, the highest Orthodox Church building in the world. This
mountain, which gave its name to the highest peak of Cyprus, rises above the Theramic Gulf.
Also lending its name to a volcano on Mars, for the point, what is this highest mountain
Greece, the legendary home of Zeus and the gods?

ANSWER: Mount Olympus

(2)     This city is home to an iconic mosaic-tiled staircase named Escadaria Selarón. The
largest city on Guanabara bay, this city's South Zone is home to Copacabana Beach. This city
hosts the world's largest Carnival celebration and is overlooked by Corcovado Mountain,
home to the Christ the Redeemer statue. For the point, name this city that, after Sao Paulo, is
the second-most populous in Brazil.

ANSWER: Rio de Janeiro
