2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                      Finals



(MS) Geography Bee Final
Regulation Tossups
(1)    This state contains the volcanos of Kupe [KOO-peh] and Manengouba, as well
as part of the Bakossi Mountains, and it takes its name from a bay home to the port of
Limbe. This (+) unrecognized state has its capital at Bambara, while its most
populous city is Buea. This state is supported in the "Anglophone Crisis" by some
Biafran separatists fighting against Paul (*) Biya's government. For the points, name this
breakaway region of western Cameroon.

ANSWER: Federal Republic of Ambazonia (accept Amba Land; accept Southern
Cameroons; prompt on “Cameroon”)

(2)    Victor Frankenstein spent the first night of his honeymoon in this resort in the
novel of the same name, and this resort boasts the second highest purse of any
women's golf championship. The 2003 G8 Summit was held in this city, causing
protestors to hang themselves from the (+) Aubonne [[oh-BOHN]] Bridge in the
nearby town of Lausanne [[loo-SAHN]]. Accords signed in this city recognized
Algeria's independence, and a conference on dealing with German-Jewish refugees
was held on this (*) Lake Geneva resort in 1938. For the points, name this resort that lends
its name to a French mineral water company.

ANSWER: Évian-les-Bains (accept L'Èvian; accept Èvian Accords)

(3)     This desert contains the Uly Balkan, a mountain range whose highest peak is
Mount Arlan, while (+) Sarygamysh Lake is located just to its north. This desert
features the Darvaza Gas Crater, a collapsed natural gas field that is referred to
locally as "The Door to (*) Hell" due to its fiery appearance. For the points, name this
desert, the twelfth largest in the world, that covers approximately seventy percent of
Turkmenistan.

ANSWER: Karakum Desert (or Gara-Gum Desert)

(4)    This facility built on the grounds of Anniston Air Force Base is often described
as "cursed" due to occurrences like Bobby Isaac's retirement in the middle of a race.
This site witnessed Rusty Wallace’s record (+) 216 miles per hour in a race, and it
hosts the GEICO 500. Outside of racing, this track’s name achieved worldwide fame
due to being depicted in a film subtitled The Ballad of (*) Ricky Bobby. For the points,
name this lengthy tri-oval raceway in Alabama, home to many NASCAR events.

ANSWER: Talladega Superspeedway (accept Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby;
accept Alabama International Motor Speedway; or AIMS; prompt on “Dega”)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                   Finals


(5)    This park's namesake Bank of America Tower was the first LEED-certified
commercial skyscraper in the United States. The eastern portion of this park was
formerly home to the above-ground Murray (+) Hill Reservoir, used to store water
from the Croton Aqueduct. This park's western border is the Avenue of the Americas,
while a building on its eastern border is guarded by two lions on (*) 5th Avenue. For
the points, name this Manhattan park home to the main branch of the New York Public
Library.

ANSWER: Bryant Park (accept Reservoir Square before “Reservoir”)

(6)     This phenomenon is known for its upwelling that produces plentiful reserves
of jack mackerels from Alberto de Agostini National Park to the Sechura (+) Desert.
First mentioned in the book Cosmos, this current strongly associated with la Niña and
El Niño produces the Garua and Camanchaca [[kah-mahn-CHAH-kah]] fogs, which
provide moisture to the Atacama (*) Desert. For the points, name this cold current named
for a German naturalist which runs along South America's Pacific Coast.

ANSWER: Humboldt Current (accept Peru Current)

(7)    This gulf, which receives the Boyne and McArthur rivers, the latter of which
flows through Borroloola, experiences the "Morning Glory" roll cloud (+) formation.
This gulf was formerly a lake of a landmass known as Sahul, and Groote Eylandt is its
largest island. This gulf is an inlet of the Arafura Sea, and stretches from the Cape (*)
York Peninsula to Cape Arnhem. For the points, name this gulf between Australia's
Northern Territory and Queensland.

ANSWER: Gulf of Carpentaria

(8)     This city is the capital of Maynas province, and has become a destination for
tourists looking to try the psychoactive Ayahuasca [[ah-tah-HWAH-skah]] brew. This
city is the largest on a continental mainland not connected to a major highway
system, and Roger (+) Casement exposed the brutal conditions of its rubber industry
worked by Putumayo Indians. This capital of Loreto is 50 miles north of the
confluence of the Maranon and Ucayali rivers which form the (*) Amazon. For the
points, name this northeastern Peruvian city.

ANSWER: Iquitos (accept San Pablo y San Pedro de Iquitos)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                   Finals


(9)    This movement attacked a pipeline from the Grasberg Mine in 1977, causing
millions of dollars of damage. A leader of this movement called Kelly Kwalik
perpetrated the (+) Mapenduma hostage crisis and was buried in Timika in 2009.
This movement, which uses the Morning Star flag, opposes the New York Agreement,
and the territory it claims was formerly called Irian (*) Jaya. For the points, name this
movement that aims to liberate the western half of New Guinea from Indonesian control.

ANSWER: Free Papua Movement (or Organisasi Papua Merdeka; or OPM; or Fri Wes
Papua Grup)

(10) One structure with this name was built to replace another one named
Honeymoon, and offers views of the Schoellkopf Power Station and Goat Island. That
structure just downstream of (+) Horseshoe Falls crosses a gorge on the Canada
border, while a natural structure with this name is located at the base of Navajo
Mountain near the shores of Lake (*) Powell. For the points, what name is given to a
natural "Bridge" in Utah and a structure spanning the Niagara River gorge?

ANSWER: Rainbow Bridge

(11) This structure is situated on the Bonnet à l'Evêque [[bah-NEH ah leh-VEK]], or
"Bishop's Hat" mountain, and offers views of a city nicknamed "Le Cap." This
structure's apex was used as a radio repeater by a UN Stabilization Mission after a
2004 coup deposed Jean-Bertrand (+) Aristide [[ah-ree-STEED]]. Grouped with the
Sans-Souci [[sahn-soo-SEE]] Palace built for King Henri [[awn-REE]] Christophe, this
structure was first African-derived piece of colonial architecture in the Americas, and
withstood a (*) 2010 earthquake that devastated Port-au-Prince. For the points, name this
Haitian fortress built to protect against invasion.

ANSWER: Citadelle Laferrière (accept Citadelle Henri Christophe)

(12) This bridge runs from Al Jasar to Khobar. "Passport Island" lies at the
midpoint of this bridge and is home to a franchise of the popular fast food restaurant
Kudu. In 2011, (+) troops from members of the GCC crossed this bridge to squash a
Shia uprising. Proposals to ease traffic on this bridge, the longest international bridge
in the world, include the construction of the King (*) Hamad Causeway. For the points,
name this causeway that connects Bahrain to Saudi Arabia.

ANSWER: King Fahd Causeway (prompt on answers about a “causeway that connects
Bahrain and Saudi Arabia” until those two countries are mentioned)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                   Finals


(13) This city, home to the massive Emporia mall, had its Kockums Crane moved to
South Korea in 2002, while its Turning Torso, designed by Santiago (+) Calatrava, was
the world's first twisting skyscraper, along with Scandinavia's tallest building. This
city is the most populous in Scania County, and the third most populous of its country
after the capital and (*) Gothenburg [[goh-TEHN-burg]]. Located across the Oresund Strait
from Copenhagen is, for the points, what Swedish city?

ANSWER: Malmö [[mahl-MUH]]

(14) This mountain range's northernmost extremity is the Bear River Range, and
its highest peak is Mount Nebo. This mountain range's Little Cottonwood (+) Canyon
is responsible for the immense snowfall at Alta-Snowbird ski resort. The Sundance
Film Festival is hosted within this mountain range, which is also home to the (*) Provo
River. For the points, name this mountain range of Utah that overlooks the Salt Lake City
metro area.

ANSWER: Wasatch Range (or Wasatch Mountains)

(15) This island's Hotel-Dieu [[DYOO]] is the world's oldest operating hospital,
while its Palace of Justice houses the Court of Cassation. This island, home to (+)
Sainte-Chapelle, is one of the two natural islands in its city, along with Saint Louis.
This island's Equestrian Statue of Henry IV is separated from Place Dauphine [[plahs
daw-FAHN]] by Pont Neuf [[POHN NOOF]], which passes over this island while
crossing the (*) Seine [[SEHN]]. For the points, name this island home to Notre Dame
Cathedral.

ANSWER: Île de la Cité (accept City Island)

(16) Anna Elizabeth Dickinson summited this mountain on a mule, and this
mountain overlooks the town of Twin Lakes along with La (+) Plata Peak.
Mountaineers piled stones on top of nearby Mount Massive in an attempt to make it
higher than this peak in the Sawatch [[suh-WAHCH]] Range. The highest of the
"Fourteeners," this peak is the second-highest (*) in the contiguous U.S. For the points,
name this highest peak of the Colorado Rockies.

ANSWER: Mount Elbert

(17) This region's most spoken language is Lozi, and its largest city is Katima
Mulilo, whose name translates to "quench the fire." This region, partly administered
from (+) Rundu as part of Kavango East, was formerly completely occupied by
Bantustans. This salient was acquired by German Southwest Africa in exchange for
Zanzibar, and it ends at the confluence of the Chobe and (*) Zambezi Rivers. For the
points, name this panhandle that gives Namibia its distinctive shape.

ANSWER: Caprivi Strip (prompt on “Namibian Panhandle” before “Namibia”)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                       Finals


(18) Boldt and Singer Castles are residences on this archipelago, which includes
Wolfe, Howe, and (+) Grindstone Islands as well as the world's smallest inhabited
island, Just Room Enough Island. This archipelago, located between Kingston and
Watertown, possibly inspired the name of a mayonnaise-based salad (*) dressing. For
the points, give this numerically named archipelago shared by New York and Canada where
the Saint Lawrence River meets Lake Ontario.

ANSWER: Thousand Islands (accept Mille-Îles; accept Thousand Island Dressing)

(19) This archipelago hosts the Windsurf World Cup at Sylt, and its only non-
barrier island is Heligoland, a former British colony where the German National (+)
Anthem was written. This archipelago begins north of the IJsselmeer [[“EYE”-suhl-
meer]], where it includes Texel and encloses the Wadden Sea before running past the
mouth of the (*) Elbe River. For the points, name this North Sea archipelago split between
the Netherlands, Germany, and Denmark.

ANSWER: Frisian Islands (accept sub-archipelagoes like West Frisian Islands; accept
Wadden Sea Islands before mentioned)

(20) This sea's inlets include Manukau Harbour and Jervis Bay, and the ports of
Wollongong and New Plymouth. Smoke from the Black (+) Saturday bushfires was
carried east over this sea, nicknamed "the Ditch," home to Lord Howe Island. This sea,
which merges with the Coral Sea to the north, can be accessed via the Bass and (*)
Cook Straits. For the points, name this sea between Australia and New Zealand.

ANSWER: Tasman Sea

(21) It's not in Britain, but this river that passes by Westminster Abbey merges
with the Nechako River at the town of Prince George. This river's confluence with the
(+) Thompson River was the site of a major gold rush at Lytton in 1858. This river,
which passes by Surrey and Richmond, is the longest completely in Canada that
drains into the (*) Pacific. For the points, name this river that empties into the Salish Sea
south of Vancouver.

ANSWER: Fraser River (accept the Staulo River; accept Lhatko; accept Tacoutche Tesse)

(22) This lake contains Sibiloi National Park on its shores, part of the Chalbi Desert,
and the construction of the Gilgel Gibe Three Dam on the Omo River threatens its
water levels. A nearly completed homo (+) Ergaster skeleton found by Kamoya Kimeu
is known as this lake's "Boy." This lake was formerly known as Lake Rudolf or the
"Jade Sea" due to its turquoise color, which is likely due to its highly (*) alkaline
nature. For the points, name this lake shared between northwest Kenya and southern
Ethiopia.

ANSWER: Lake Turkana (accept Lake Rudolf or Jade Sea until mentioned; Turkana Boy)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                   Finals


(23) This sea's north-easternmost arm is the Shelikhov Gulf, where American
whalers traded with the Even people for fish and reindeer. One port on this sea
contains a "Mask (+) of Sorrow" dedicated to victims of the Sevvostlag labor system.
Japanese POWs were held in the port of Magadan on this sea, whose southern Strait of
Tartary receives the (*) Amur River near the island of Sakhalin. Bound by the Kamchatka
peninsula and the Kuril Islands is, for the points, what sea in eastern Russia?

ANSWER: Sea of Okhotsk (or Okhótskoye)

(24) This city hosted the only European Championships in Bandy at its ice skating
rink, the largest natural rink in Europe. This city on the Landwasser [[LAND-vah-
suh]] River hosts the Spengler (+) Cup, and an NGO that hosts its annual meeting here
had its 50th meeting titled "the Great Reset" in 2020. This city nestled in the Rhaetian
Alps is part of the Canton of the Grisons [[gree-SOHN]], and is sometimes known by its
Romansh name, (*) Tavau. For the points, name this Swiss city that hosts the World
Economic Forum.

ANSWER: Davos (accept Tavau until mentioned)

(25) This river contains the Arvand Free Zone and the world's largest date palm
forest near its mouth at the al-Faw peninsula. This river was used as a boundary
between the Qajar (+) and Ottoman Empires, and one country was forced to export its
oil via Aqaba [[AH-kuh-buh]] after an attack on its port of Basra. Along with the
Zagros Mountains, this river forms part of the (*) Iran-Iraq boundary. For the points,
name this river formed from the confluence of the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers.

ANSWER: Shatt al-Arab (accept Dijla Al-Awara; accept Arvand Rud; prompt on “Swift
River” or “River of the Arabs”)

(26) A declaration signed in this city codified the idea of Ujamaa, and perpetrators
of the (+) Rwandan Genocide were tried in a UN court in this city, the headquarters of
the East African Community. This city, often called the "safari capital of the world," is
located in the shadow of Mount (*) Meru. For the points, name this city in northern
Tanzania, a gateway to Olduvai [[ohl-DOO-vye]] Gorge and Mount Kilimanjaro.

ANSWER: Arusha (accept A-Town)

(27) A lagoon shared between Klaipėda County and Kaliningrad is named for this
historical region, whose northernmost tip is occupied by Livonians south of (+)
Saaremaa [[sah-REH-mah]] Island. A pocket of Nazi forces in the Reichskommissariat
[[RIKES-koh-meh-SEHR-yat]] (*) Ostland was named for this region, and it was the site of
a Duchy named for it and Semigallia. For the points, name this region in western Latvia,
which forms a peninsula enclosing the Gulf of Riga.

ANSWER: Courland (accept Kurzeme or Kurland; or Kuramo; accept Curonian Lagoon;
accept Courland Pocket; accept Duchy of Courland and Semigallia)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                  Finals


(28) This river includes the Albury–Wodonga urban area on its banks, and
straddles the Cadell Fault that creates the Barmah red gum forests. This river's
mouth at Coorong (+) National Park has been the site of constant dredging since the
2000s. The Mitta Mitta, Lachlan, and Murrumbidgee rivers are tributaries of this
river, which flows into the Southern Ocean just south of Kangaroo Island. The (*)
Darling is a tributary of, for the points, what longest river of Australia?

ANSWER: Murray River (prompt on Murray-Darling River; accept Millewa or Tongala)

(29) This lake is fed by the Sekong, Sesan, and Srepok Rivers, and becomes a river
itself at Kampong Chhnang. A tooth lost by a (+) naga is honored during the Water
and Moon Festival, which marks this river's reversal. Siem Reap is located on this
lake, an important agricultural asset to the (*) Khmer [[KEY-mare]] Empire. For the
points, name this Cambodian lake, Southeast Asia's largest.

ANSWER: Tonle Sap

(30) This sea extends east towards Cape Norvegia, which separates it from the King
Haakon VII [[the Seventh]] Sea on the Princess Märtha Coast. Ernest (+) Shackleton's
Endurance sunk after getting trapped in the ice of this sea, whose largest island is
Berkner Island, which separates the Filchner and Ronne Ice Shelfs. This sea west of
Queen (*) Maud Land is disputed between Argentina and the U.K. For the points, name this
sea east of the Antarctic Peninsula.

ANSWER: Weddell Sea
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                     Finals


Extra Questions
(1)     These people's autonomous counties include Yitong, Weichang, and Xinbin,
and one name for them translates to "the Tartars of wearing red tassels." These
Tungusic (+) people that descend from the Jurchen write their native language in a
top to bottom fashion, which has fewer than 100 native speakers. This ethnic group is
concentrated in provinces like (*) Hebei and Liaoning. For the points, name these people
that led the Qing [[CHING]] Dynasty.

ANSWER: Manchu People (accept Manju; or Mǎnzhōuzú people)

(2)     This city's Victoria and Alfred Waterfront neighborhood contains landmarks
such as Nobel Square and Chavonnes [[SHAH-vohn]] Battery. This city's suburb of
Simon's Town is home to Boulders Beach, an important habitat for (+) African
Penguins. This city, which is overlooked by Table Mountain, is named for a nearby
geographic feature named (*) "of Good Hope." Nelson Mandela was imprisoned in this
city at Robben Island. For the points, name this second largest city in South Africa, which
serves as the seat of parliament.

ANSWER: Cape Town (accept Kaapstad)

(3)     This country's lingua franca is the Sranan [[SRAH-nahn]] Tongo creole. This
country contains the Coppename River, which arises out of the Wilhelmina (+)
Mountains. This country's largest lake is the Brokopondo Reservoir. A 2007 court
case ruled that this country had full sovereignty of the Courantyne River. This former
Dutch colony is engaged in a border dispute with (*) Guyana and French Guiana. For the
points, name this least-populous country in South America, whose capital is Paramaribo.

ANSWER: Republic of Suriname
