2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                      Round 1



(MS) Geography Bee Round 1
Regulation Tossups
(1)     This first trading port of African enslaved persons in the Americas was formerly
known as Mauritsstad and is the site of Kahal Zur Israel, the first synagogue in the Americas.
This capital of Pernambuco administers Fernando de Noronha and is known for its Frevo
style of dance. The easternmost city to host the 2014 FIFA World Cup was, for the point,
what Brazilian city whose name translates to "reef"?

ANSWER: Recife [[ruh-SEE-fee]] (be lenient on pronunciation)

(2)     The easternmost portion of this mountain range is known as the Aures, which is the
home of a Berber ethnic group called the Chaoui, and the northernmost point of this range
is known as the Rif. The rain shadow of this mountain range helped form the Sahara Desert.
Mount Toubkal is the highest peak of, for the point, what mountain range in Africa that
stretches from Tunisia to Morocco, named for a mythical Titan who held the sky on his
back?

ANSWER: Atlas Mountains

(3)     This state's Laguna Verde Nuclear Power Station produces five percent of its
country's energy. This state, which is home to the archaeological sites Tres Zapotes, has its
capital at Xalapa [[hah-LAH-pah]], and this state controls the east side of Pico de Orizaba.
Upon landing in what is now Mexico, Hernán Cortés founded, for the point, what Mexican
state whose namesake city has the prefix "Heroica"?

ANSWER: Veracruz (or Free and Sovereign State of Veracruz de la Llave; accept Heroica
Veracruz)

(4)    On Perdido Key, southwest of this city, an annual festival has contestants throw a
dead mullet between state lines. This city contains an obelisk dedicated to William Dudley
Chipley, a man who orchestrated the construction of a railroad that stretched 160 miles
west to the Apalachicola River at the town of Chattahoochee. The country seat of Escambia
County is, for the point, what westernmost city in the panhandle of Florida?

ANSWER: Pensacola

(5)     This sea's islet of Sveti Stefan was converted into a luxury hotel from a fishing island
by connecting it to Budva Municipality via tombolo. This sea's inlets include the Bay of
Kotor and Gulf of Trieste, and this sea is used as a vertical datum to measure peaks of the
Dinaric Alps. Said to contain its "pearl" at Dubrovnik, for the point, what is this sea between
Italy and the Balkans?

ANSWER: Adriatic Sea (accept Pearl of the Adriatic)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                   Round 1


(6)     The Zamboanga Peninsula extends off of this island, connected by ferry to Great
Santa Cruz Island, home to a pink-sand beach. The volcano Mount Apo overlooks this
island's largest city, Davao, and this island, grouped with the Sulu Archipelago, is located
north of the Celebes [[SEH-leh-bess]] Sea. The Moro conflict is an ongoing insurgency on
and around, for the point, what southernmost island of the Philippines, the site of Muslim
separatism?

ANSWER: Mindanao

(7)    This region's northernmost portion contains the Torngat Mountains, where a
weather station known as "Kurt" established the only armed German presence in the
Americas during World War Two. This region's town Happy Valley-Goose Bay is located on
the Churchill River, which contains the world's second-largest manmade lake, the
Smallwood Reservoir. For the point, what is this region in Canada that forms a province
with Newfoundland?

ANSWER: Labrador (accept Newfoundland and Labrador)

(8)    This island, which is inhabited by the indigenous Batak and Minangkabau [[MEE-
nahng-KAH-bao]] peoples, contains the Toba supervolcano in its Barisan Mountains. The
northern and westernmost province, Aceh [[AH-cheh]], is located at the tip of this island,
whose largest cities include Palembang and Medan. The Sunda Strait separates Java from
the southern coast of, for the point, what other Indonesian island, located across the Strait
of Malacca from the Malay Peninsula?

ANSWER: Sumatra

(9)    This peninsula's southernmost point is Cape Charles, and this peninsula's main
commercial center is Sailsbury. Rehoboth Beach and Ocean City are resorts on this
peninsula whose city of Lewes is connected to Cape May via ferry, and the Chincoteague
ponies lives on this peninsula's offshore island of Assateague. Located on the east of
Chesapeake Bay, the city of Dover lies on, for the point, what peninsula whose name is a
portmanteau of three states?

ANSWER: Delmarva Peninsula

(10) This mountain, which is delineated by the Tamur and Teesta Rivers, was considered
the highest point in the world until 1852 when that title passed to Mount Everest. Tourists
can view the southeast face of this mountain by trekking the Goecha La pass, which is
located in the state of Sikkim. For the point, name this mountain in the Himalayas, the
highest point in India.

ANSWER: Mount Kangchenjunga (or Khangchendzonga; or Kumbhkaran Lungur)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                     Round 1


(11) This "Island of Poets" is the largest of a namesake archipelago that includes Samhah
and Darsah, and this island's capital Hadibu is controlled by the United Arab Emirates. This
island, where Thomas the Apostle was shipwrecked en route to India, lies east of the
Guardafui Channel from Puntland, and its xeric [[ZEE-rik]] landscape is known for endemic
species like the Dragon Blood Tree. For the point, name this Yemeni island located off the
Horn of Africa.

ANSWER: Socotra (or Suquṭrā)

(12) This city, nicknamed the "Nymph of the Thermaic Gulf," was formerly the center of
the Romaniote Jewish community, and this city's Ano Poli neighborhood became Europe's
largest Sephardic community during Ottoman rule. This city is located north of the Halkidiki
Peninsula and contains Aristotle University, the largest in the Balkans. For the point, name
this capital and largest city of Greek Macedonia.

ANSWER: Thessaloniki (or Thessalonica; or Saloniki; or Salonica)

(13) Among the pollutants given off in the production of this commodity are its
namesake mill effluent. Obtained from the mesocarp of species like Elaeis guineensis, this
commodity is produced on plantations by the Cargill corporation. A haze in a region of Asia
has been caused by the clearing of tropical rainforests for production of this oil. Malaysia
and Indonesia are the two largest producers of, for the point, what controversial vegetable
oil derived from a tree?

ANSWER: Palm Oil (accept Palm oil mill effluent; prompt on "Oil"; prompt on "Cooking Oil";
prompt on "Vegetable Oil")

(14) This island, governed from Flying Fish Cove, is mainly inhabited by Peranakans, or
Straits Chinese. Exmouth is the mainland town closest to this island which hosts the
westernmost of its country's immigration detention facilities. The world's only "crab
bridge" is located on this island, which is 600 miles to the east of the Cocos, or Keeling,
Islands. For the point, name this Australian island named for the day it was first sighted,
December 25.

ANSWER: Territory of Christmas Island)

(15) The country in which this city is found moved its executive offices from this city to
the planned city of Putrajaya. Bukit Bintang is the main shopping district of this city, served
by Port Klang and known for its Batu Caves that contain a massive gold statue of Lord
Murugan. The world's tallest twin towers, the Petronas Towers, are located in, for the point,
what city in Southeast Asia, surrounded by Selangor and serving as the capital of Malaysia?

ANSWER: Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur (accept KL)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                      Round 1


(16) This island's FDR Boardwalk stretches from Fort Wadsworth to New Dorp. Todt Hill
is the highest point of this island and the entire Atlantic Coastal Plain. Synonymous with
Richmond County, this island receives the busiest ferry route in the U.S. at St. George
Terminal, and this island is connected to Brooklyn via the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge. For
the point, name this southernmost borough of New York City.

ANSWER: Staten Island (accept Richmond County before mentioned)

(17) This archipelago's sectarian violence, partly perpetrated by Laskar Jihad, was
settled by the 2002 Malino II Accord. This archipelago is split into a Christian south, with its
capital at Ambon, and a Muslim north, with its capital of Sofifi on Halmahera. East of the
Banda Sea and northwest of the Arafura Sea is, for the point, what Indonesian archipelago
between Sulawesi and New Guinea, formerly named for its seasonings like nutmeg?

ANSWER: Moluccas (accept Maluku Islands; prompt on "Spice" Islands; prompt on Malay
Archipelago before "Indonesian" is mentioned)

(18) This region's chief goddess is Mari, whose consort is the dragon Sugaar. Two of this
region's constituent provinces are Álava and Gipuzkoa. This region's indigenous language is
Euskara [[yoo-SKAH-rah]]. This region's capital is Vitoria-Gasteiz, and this region's city of
Guernica was subjected to a bombing campaign by the Condor Legion. For the point, name
this autonomous region of northwestern Spain, which is home to a notable language isolate.

ANSWER: Basque Country (or Basque Autonomous Community; or Euskadi; or País
Vasco; or Euskal Autonomia Erkidegoa; or EAE; or Comunidad Autónoma del País Vasco;
or CAPV)

(19) This city's international airport contains the UPS Worldport and has a logo that
features a victorious man against the backdrop of a butterfly. The Muhammad Ali
International Airport is located in this city that is also home to the "World's Largest Baseball
Bat" outside a factory that makes this city's namesake Slugger. For the point, name this city
with many sporting connections including the Kentucky Derby.

ANSWER: Louisville (accept Louisville Slugger)

(20) The opening of a cable railway on this mountain was commemorated with the song
"Funiculì, Funiculà." This mountain's peak is contained within the Gran Cono, formed from
the collapse of a structure called Mount Sommo. An observatory on this mountain monitors
the Phlegraean Fields as part of the Campanian volcanic arc, and this mountain destroyed
Herculaneum. For the point, name this volcano that overlooks Naples and buried Pompeii in
79 AD.

ANSWER: Mount Vesuvius (or Vesuvio)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                    Round 1


(21) This museum displays part of the Cape York meteorite, the largest on display in the
Northern Hemisphere. Neil deGrasse Tyson has been the director of this museum's Hayden
Planetarium since its founding. An equestrian statue of this museum's founder was moved
to North Dakota due to its depiction of a Native American man and an African man in
subordinate positions. Adjoining Central Park, for the point, what is this New York museum
founded by Theodore Roosevelt?

ANSWER: American Museum of Natural History (accept AMNH; prompt on "American" or
"Natural History")

(22) This city is home to the original Lennon Wall, covered in Beatles-inspired graffiti,
and a bridge tower in this city guards the entrance to the Malá Strana neighborhood. This
city is home to the largest Jewish cemetery in Europe and is famed for its six-century old
astronomical clock. This city's Charles Bridge crosses the Vltava River, and this city is the
largest in Bohemia. For the point, name this capital of the Czech Republic.

ANSWER: Prague (or Praha)

(23) This province's McArthur River uranium mine is the world's largest. Lloydminster
and Moose Jaw are cities in this province that doesn't observe Daylight Savings Time and
which has completely rectangular borders. Reindeer and Athabasca are both lakes in this
province that borders North Dakota and the Northwest Territories. Regina [[ree-JY-nah]] is
the capital of, for the point, what province bordering Manitoba, home to Saskatoon?

ANSWER: Saskatchewan

(24) This city docks a "floating church" on a self-propelled boat that travels northwards
to towns like Kamyshin and Tolyatti. The "Sword of [this city]" was presented to its former
namesake by Winston Churchill during the Tehran Conference. This city, connected to the
Don River via canal, contains the world's largest statue of a woman, The Motherland Calls.
For the point, name this city, the site of a decisive World War Two defeat for Germany,
formerly named for a Soviet leader.

ANSWER: Volgograd (accept Stalingrad; accept Tsaritsyn; accept Sword of Stalingrad;
accept Battle (or Siege) of Stalingrad))

(25) This island's eastern coast is followed by the Canal des Pangalanes [[pahn-gah-LAH-
nehs]]. This island is part of a namesake country, the world's second-largest country
consisting primarily of islands. The elephant bird was formerly endemic to this island that is
the world's top producer of vanilla and sapphires and home to the Avenue of Baobabs. For
the point, name this island east of Mozambique where lemurs are endemic.

ANSWER: Madagascar (or Madagasikara; accept Republic of Madagascar; accept
Republique de Madagascar; accept Repoblikan'i Madagasikara)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                      Round 1


(26) A national symbol of this country is actually located in Turkey, Mount Ararat, the
believed landing site of “Noah’s Ark." After a border conflict with Azerbaijan, the Nagorno-
Karabakh autonomous region’s area decreased following the defeat of this country. For the
point, name this smallest country located in the Transcaucasia Region with its capital at
Yerevan.

ANSWER: Republic of Armenia (or Hayastani Hanrapetut'yun)

(27) A marker to this feature is found in the town of Ruisui, and the highest point on this
feature is Yu Shan. By international agreement, traveling the length of this feature is needed
for a round-the-world aviation speed record. This feature reaches its westernmost
terrestrial point at Baja California, and the sun lies directly overhead to viewers on this line
during the June solstice. For the point, what is this line, named for the crab constellation in
the Northern hemisphere?

ANSWER: Tropic of Cancer (accept Northern Tropic before "Northern" is mentioned; do
not accept or prompt on "Tropic of Capricorn")

(28) This sole non-European language recognized as a minority language in the Czech
Republic is spoken in the border town of Dongxing in Guangxi, and it is the most spoken of
the Austroasiatic languages. This language, originally used the Chữ Nôm script, but it is now
the most-spoken Asian language to chiefly use the Latin script, due to French rule. Nguyen
[[WEE-IN]] is a common surname in, for the point, what language spoken in Ho Chi Minh
City?

ANSWER: Vietnamese (accept Tiếng Việt)

(29) This country's Khawr al Udayd, or "Inland Sea," is the proposed site of the Salwa
Canal, which would make this country an island. This country, with the highest GDP per
Capita in the Muslim world, is ruled by the al-Thani family and was blockaded by the Gulf
Cooperation Council after it was accused of supporting terrorism. For the point, name this
peninsular country that extends off Saudi Arabia.

ANSWER: State of Qatar (or Dawlat Qatar)

(30) This U.S. state's town of Blaine contains one half of the Peace Arch Park and has a
shoreline on the Strait of Georgia. This state has its southeastern border formed by the
Snake River, and this state, home to some of the snowiest places in the continental U.S. at
Mount Baker and Mount Rainier, also contains Tacoma. For the point, name this state which
is home to Olympia and the Seattle Space Needle.

ANSWER: Washington
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                     Round 1


Extra Questions
(1)     This border between a country and a division of another country runs past the Altar
Desert, Tohono O'odham Nation, and Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument and has
Nogales as its largest city. This border, created by the Gadsden Purchase, consists of one
diagonal and one straight line, barring a section near Yuma on the Colorado River. For the
point, name this border that separates a state governed from Phoenix from a country to the
south.

ANSWER: Mexico-Arizona Border (accept US-Sonora border until "Phoenix")

(2)     In this region, which gained its popular name in 1971, a four-story building
nicknamed "The Spaceship" is located at 1 Infinite Loop in Cupertino. This region's town
Palo Alto is home to the garage where Hewlett-Packard was founded. This region, which is
named after the fourteenth element of the periodic table, has its largest city at San Jose. For
the point, name this "Valley" in the Bay Area of California known for its technology sector.

ANSWER: Silicon Valley
