2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                     Round 8



(MS) Geography Bee Round 8
Regulation Tossups
(1)      This mountain shares its name with the highest peak in peninsular Florida and the
tallest ski resort in Maine and itself looks over Botafogo Bay. The first cable car in the
Americas ascends this mountain, passing through one of the largest urban rock climbing
areas and Morro da Urca en route to the peak. Corcovado is the parent peak of, for the point,
what mountain in Rio de Janeiro named for a sweet product?

ANSWER: Sugarloaf Mountain (or Pão de Açúcar)

(2)     This state's Sunway Pyramid Mall includes a replica of the Sphinx and the Great
Pyramid of Giza, and this state is often known by its Arabic honorific, "Darul Ehsan." Klang
is the royal capital of this state that borders Perak to the north. This state contains a
massive statue of Lord Murugan in its Batu Caves, a site sacred to its Tamil community.
Located on the Straits of Malacca, for the point, what is this most populous state of Malaysia,
which surrounds Kuala Lumpur?

ANSWER: Selangor Darul Ehsan (accept Darul Ehsan until mentioned)

(3)     This city is renowned for its modernist architecture, notably the Villa Tugendhat
designed by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe and Lilly Reich. This city is located at the confluence
of the Svitava and Svratka Rivers. This city is home to Czechia’s Supreme Court and is the
center of its judiciary system. For the point, name this historical capital of Moravia, the
second-largest city in the Czech Republic.

ANSWER: Brno [[BURR-"no"]]

(4)     This national park's Castle Mountain was home to an interment camp used to hold
Ukrainian settlers during World War One, and this national park contains the southern
portion of the Icefields Parkway. This national park shares the Kicking Horse Pass with
Yoho National Park, and the Bow River flows through this national park's town of Lake
Louise. For the point, name this national park in the Canadian Rockies, 100 miles southeast
of Jasper National Park and west of Calgary.

ANSWER: Banff National Park (do not accept or prompt on "Jasper National Park")

(5)     This territory's unofficial flag features the phrase "we are vigilant" in the native
Shimaore [[shee-mah-OH-reh]] dialect, along with two seahorses. This territory's outlying
island of Petite Terre contains its airport at Dzaoudzi [[dzah-OO-dzee]], connected to the
city of Mamazdou via bridge. The poorest and smallest of France's 18 regions, this island
has been a target for illegal immigrants in the Mozambique Channel. For the point, name
this Indian Ocean island disputed with the Comoros.

ANSWER: Department of Mayotte (or Département de Mayotte)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                   Round 8


(6)    The closest major town to this park is Alamogordo, and this park's Alkali Flat and
Lake Lucero were formed from the evaporation of Lake Otero. This park is nestled in the
Tularosa Basin east of the Sacramento Mountains, and Steve Pearce opposed this park's
nomination as a World Heritage Site due to concerns that it could interrupt military testing.
The Trinity bomb was detonated in, for the point, what New Mexico park known for its
gypsum crystal sand dunes?

ANSWER: White Sands National Park

(7)      This state's Ulama ballgame is a revival of the Mesoamerican ball game, and this
state is today inhabited by the indigenous Mayo people. This state, home to the seaside Las
Labradas petroglyphs, has a narrow southern border with Nayarit, and its largest cities
include Los Mochis, Mazatlán, and Culiacán. For the point, name this Mexican state, south of
Sonora on the Gulf of California, the namesake of El Chapo's drug cartel.

ANSWER: Sinaloa (accept Sinaloa Cartel or Cártel de Sinaloa)

(8)      This city's upscale Haeundae [[hay-YOON-deh]] Beach is located near the We've the
Zenith residential complex. Centum City, which contains the flagship store of the Shinsegae
franchise, the world's largest department store is in this city. The island of Tsushima is
visible from this city, which forms an industrial zone with Gimhae and Ulsan at the mouth of
the Nakdong River. For the point, name this largest port in South Korea, its second largest
city, only 100 miles from Japan.

ANSWER: Busan Metropolitan City (accept Pusan)

(9)     This city's largest suburb is Matola, and its Independence Square contains a statue
of Samora Machel [[MAH-shel]]. This city's namesake bay receives the Great Usutu River
and is bound by Inhaca Island, and this city is known for its train station whose dome is
often mistakenly credited to Gustave Eiffel. This city was known as Lourenço Marques [[loh-
REN-soh MAR-kess]] until 1976, when it was renamed under a newly formed socialist state.
For the point, name this capital of Mozambique.

ANSWER: Maputo (accept Lourenço Marques before mentioned; accept Maputo Bay)

(10) A Turkish example of one of these territories contains the Tomb of Suleyman Shah,
and one of these territories called Campione d'Italia formerly contained Europe's largest
casino. The breakaway Republic of Artsakh is an example of one of these territories within
Azerbaijan, one of which formerly included West Berlin. San Marino and Lesotho [[leh-SOO-
too]] are national examples of, for the point, what type of territory completely surrounded
by foreign country?

ANSWER: Enclaves (accept Exclaves until "Artsakh" is mentioned)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                    Round 8


(11) This mountain hosted the cycling and archery events of the 1996 Olympics, and this
mountain, which overlooks a replica plantation inspired by Gone with the Wind, had its park
officially opened on the 100th anniversary of Lincoln's assassination. In his "I Have a
Dream" speech, Martin Luther King, Jr. said, "Let freedom ring from [this mountain]" where
the second Ku Klux Klan was founded in 1915. For the point, name this Georgia mountain
that controversially displays carvings of three Confederate leaders.

ANSWER: Stone Mountain (accept Stone Mountain Park)

(12) This territory's cities Katherine and Alice Springs are connected by the Stuart
Highway. This territory is nicknamed the "Top End," and its Kakadu National Park near
Arnhem Land is situated on the Arafura Sea south of New Guinea. This territory, half of
which is under Aboriginal administration, contains Ayers Rock, also known as Uluru. For the
point, name this Australian territory with its capital at Darwin.

ANSWER: Northern Territory (or NT; prompt on "The T"; prompt "Top End" before
mentioned)

(13) The discovery of this city's oil field occurred at Alamitos oil well, which is located in
Signal Hill. This city shares its name with a barrier island in New York that is located just
east of the Rockaway Peninsula. The Walter Pyramid and Villa Riviera are attractions in this
city, whose port contains the RMS Queen Mary and forms the busiest shipping complex in
the U.S. with Los Angeles. For the point, name this California port and epicenter of the 2021
supply chain crisis.

ANSWER: Long Beach

(14) This polity's Lake Rista contained a summer home of Joseph Stalin, and it boasts a
flag with a red canton featuring a white hand, along with seven green and white stripes.
This polity's Veryovkina [[vehr-YOHV-kee-nah]] Cave is the world's deepest at over seven
thousand feet. Sukhumi is the capital of this breakaway state that is recognized with South
Ossetia [[oh-SET-yah]] as sovereign by Russia. For the point, name this Georgian breakaway
state on the Black Sea.

ANSWER: Republic of Abkhazia [[ab-KAH-zee-ah]]

(15) This state is the site of Asia's longest drive-in beach between Kannur and Thalassery
[[tah-lah-SHEH-ree]]. This state is home to Anamudi, the highest peak of southern India, and
also contains India's oldest Jewish population and the Mappila Muslims. This state at the
end of the Western Ghats is largely synonymous with the Malabar Coast on the Laccadive
[[LAK-ah-"dive"]] Sea. With its capital at Trivandum, for the point, what is this Indian state
which is home to the port city Kochi?

ANSWER: Kerala [[KEH-ruh-luh]]
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                    Round 8


(16) This island group, from which Ripsaw music originated, has a flag that displays a
yellow shield with a conch shell, a lobster, and a melon cactus, known for its red cap that
resembles a fez. Many have proposed that Canada could annex these islands, the smaller
polity of the Lucayan Archipelago. These islands have their capital at Cockburn Town,
although Providenciales is their largest city. Made up of two groups of tropical islands, for
the point, what is this British Overseas Territory southeast of the Bahamas?

ANSWER: Turks and Caicos Islands (accept TCI; prompt on partial answers; accept
Lucayan archipelago before "flag" is mentioned)

(17) This city contains the largest Pontic Greek community in its country, called the
Greeks of Priazovye [[pree-ah-ZOHV-yeh]], and this city also contains the Illich Steel and
Iron Works factory. This city is claimed as the largest port of a "people's republic" declared
by Denis Pushilin, and this city, where a theatre and maternity hospital were targeted in
2022 airstrikes, is officially part of the Donetsk Oblast. For the point, name this Ukrainian
port on the Sea of Azov, which has been besieged by Russia.

ANSWER: Mariupol

(18) This city's tallest building is the Aspire Tower, while its artificial island complex The
Pearl is the only place in its country where foreigners can own property. This city's Museum
of Islamic Art was designed by I.M. Pei, and this city's Hamad International Airport is the
hub of an airline whose logo sports an Arabian oryx. Al Jazeera has its headquarters in this
city, whose Khalifa Stadium will be the main venue of the 2022 World Cup. For the point,
name this capital of Qatar.

ANSWER: Doha (or ad-Dawḥa)

(19) Two football stadiums in this city are in the top ten for capacity in the English
Premiere League. This port city's name was emblazoned on the Titanic as the White Star
Line was headquartered on James Street in this city. Mercantile buildings known as the
"Three Graces" overlook the Mersey River in this city. With residents known colloquially as
"Scousers," for the point, what is this English city, the birthplace of The Beatles?

ANSWER: Liverpool

(20) This island, that forms the southwestern corner of the "Coral Triangle," has its
highest point at Mount Agung, which erupted from 2017 to 2019. Denpasar is the largest
city of this island, located near its southernmost point on the Bukit Peninsula. This island,
located west of Lombok, is the only island in the Malay Archipelago to have a majority
Hindu population. For the point, name this Lesser Sunda, Indonesia's main tourist hub.

ANSWER: Bali
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                     Round 8


(21) This country's salient Grand-Popo is an important center of voodoo and takes its
name from the Yoruba word for "west." This country's W National Park is located at its
northern extremity on the banks of the Niger [[nee-ZHEHR]] River. Fon is the primary
language in this country within which the historical Kingdom of Dahomey was located. With
its capital at Porto-Novo, for the point, what is this country which is home to Cotonou?

ANSWER: Republic of Benin (or Republique du Benin; accept Dahomey before mentioned)

(22) This island was the site of the world's first regulated Bitcoin Investment Fund. This
bailiwick is located off the coast of the Cotentin [[koh-tahn-TAN]] Peninsula, and its flag
features a red St. Andrew's Cross surmounted by a Plantagenet Crown, which originated in
Anjou. St. Helier [[el-YEH]] is the capital of this Crown Dependency, the southernmost part
of the British Isles. For the point, name this Channel Island which names a US state
governed from Trenton.

ANSWER: Bailiwick of Jersey (do not accept or prompt on "Guernsey" or "New Jersey")

(23) This territory, which used to administer the remote Clipperton Island, has its
highest peak at Mount Orohena. This territory's Gambier [[gahm-BYEH]] Islands provide
the only outside link to the Pitcairn Islands, and its other archipelagoes include the Austral,
Tuamotu, Marquesas, and Society Islands. Known for its bungalow resorts, for the point,
what is this collective in the Pacific which is governed from Papeete [[pah-peh-EH-teh]] on
Tahiti?

ANSWER: French Polynesia (or Pōrīnetia Farāni; or Polynésie française; prompt on
partial answers; do not accept or prompt on "Tahiti")

(24) The Cave Rock Tunnel was created along the shores of this body of water, and
water-filled, glacier-carved canyons along this body of water include Emerald Bay and
Fallen Leaf Lake. Minor settlements along this lake include Meeks Bay and Kings Beach. This
lake is drained by the Truckee River, which flows to Pyramid Lake near Reno. This lake is
bordered by Carson City in the Sierra Nevadas. For the point, name this popular ski vacation
spot, a lake located along the California-Nevada Border.

ANSWER: Lake Tahoe

(25) Near this nation’s region Cayo, Mennonites originating from the Vistula River
inhabit Barton Creek. The remains of Fort Mundy are located in this country's Orange Walk,
located near Ambergris Caye. This nation and the Mopan River make a portmanteau to form
its capital’s name. For the point, name this majority English-speaking Central American
nation once known as British Honduras.

ANSWER: Belize (accept British Honduras before mentioned)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                      Round 8


(26) This lake's three basins are demarcated by the Academician Ridge, which peaks
above the water at the Svyatoi [[SWEE-ah-toy]] Nos Peninsula and the Ushkan Islands. The
Shaman Rock juts out into this lake on Olkhon Island, Eurasia's largest lake island, and this
lake, west of Buryatia, feeds the Angara River, a tributary of the Yenisei River. For the point,
name this lake in Siberia, the world's deepest.

ANSWER: Lake Baikal (or Ozero Baykal)

(27) This river passes through Lake Francis and four namesake lakes near its source in
Coos County, and this river's northern reaches once defined the Republic of Indian Stream.
This river's valley contains towns such as Amherst, Massachusetts with Yale University
adjacent to it. In this river's lower reaches, it passes through Springfield, Massachusetts
before entering Hartford. For the point, name this river that exits its namesake state in New
Haven.

ANSWER: Connecticut River

(28) The Indian state of Sikkim has distributed water bottles made from this plant to
prevent plastic pollution. An archaic form of torture allegedly placed shoots of this plant
under the fingernails, and this plant was often used to make reed pens. This plant can grow
at speeds of up to 1.5 inches per hour, making it the world's fastest-growing plant. For the
point, name this Asian plant that is the main source of food for the giant panda.

ANSWER: Bamboo (or Bambusoideae)

(29) This city is home to the tallest Orthodox church in the world, the Cathedral of Christ
the Saviour. This city's Central Park of Culture and Leisure is more commonly known as
Gorky Park. Multi-colored onion domes sit atop this city's Saint Basil's Cathedral. The seat of
government in this city is the Kremlin. Home to the historic Red Square, for the point, what
is this capital and largest city of Russia?

ANSWER: Moscow (or Moskva)

(30) This city, which was formerly served by Stapleton International Airport, is now
home to the largest airport by area in the U.S. That airport is known for an ominous series of
murals and an imposing Blue Mustang statue. This city on the South Platte River includes
suburbs such as Aurora, Lakewood, and Boulder and is the largest city that is permanently
in Mountain Time. For the point, name this "Mile High City," the capital of Colorado.

ANSWER: Denver (accept Denver International Airport)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                     Round 8


Extra Questions
(1)       Tikaboo Peak provides the best vantage point to see this site in Lincoln County. This
site, officially known as Homey Airport or Groom Lake, is served by the exclusive Janet
Airlines, which also serves China Lake and Tonopah from Harry Reid Airport. In 2019, over
2 million people signed a proposal to "raid" this site, although only a few thousand
congregated on the Extraterrestrial Highway. For the point, name this secretive military
facility in Nevada, associated with UFO conspiracy theories.

ANSWER: Area 51 (accept Homey Airport or Groom Lake before mentioned)

(2)     This country, which controls the Pescadores archipelago and Pratas Island, is home
to a company that once unintentionally dumped 30 thousand rubber ducks into the Pacific
Ocean, the movements of which were used to study ocean currents. That company,
Evergreen, is headquartered in Taoyuan, and operated the ship that blockaded the Suez
Canal for a week in 2021. Kaohsiung [[KOW-SHYUNG]] and Taipei are ports in, for the point,
what country, separated by the Formosa Strait from mainland China?

ANSWER: Taiwan (accept Chinese Taipei, Republic of China, ROC, or Formosa before
mentioned; do not accept "PRC" or "People's Republic of China" under any circumstances;
prompt on "China")
