2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                  Round 6



(MS) Geography Bee Round 6
Regulation Tossups
(1)     This city is joined to Iranduba by the Journalist Phelippe Dahsou Bridge, the only
bridge that crosses the major river upon which this city is located. This city contains a
monument to the Opening of the Ports, a tribute to a rubber boom that gave this city the
moniker "Paris of the Tropics." Located at the meeting of the Rio Negro and Amazon Rivers,
for the point, what is this northwestern Brazilian city?

ANSWER: Manaus

(2)      Chairman Gonzalo studied this language as he became more active in left-wing
politics and formed the Shining Path. Alberto Fujimori's regime forcibly sterilized speakers
of this language, which is possibly related to Aymara. Gaucho and poncho are words derived
from this language, the most widely spoken indigenous language in the Americas. For the
point, name this Inca language, spoken in Peru and Bolivia.

ANSWER: Quechuan (or Runasimi)

(3)     This mountain hosts the U.S.'s only year-round skiing at Timberline Lodge which is
accessible from Government Camp. This mountain, sometimes known as Wy'east in
Multnomah, contains the Lolo Pass which once connected natives to fishing grounds at
Celilo Falls via the Willamette Valley. For the point, name this fourth-highest peak in the
Cascades, the highest peak in Oregon.

ANSWER: Mount Hood (accept Wy'east before mentioned)

(4)    This city's Musalla Complex was the site of the Panjdeh incident, in which it was
razed as part of the "Great Game." This city is the westernmost city ever captured by a
Chinese dynasty, and this city on the Hari River was one of the two capitals of the Timurid
Dynasty. Mostly inhabited by Tajiks, for the point, what is this third-largest city of
Afghanistan after Kabul and Kandahar?

ANSWER: Herat

(5)     This region's southwest contains the town Kemi, which annually builds the world's
largest snow fort. This region lost ocean access with the Soviet acquisition of Petsamo, and
the capital of this region lies just four miles south of the Arctic Circle. Rovaniemi is the
capital of, for the point, what northernmost region of Finland, which is inhabited by the
Sami?

ANSWER: Lapland (or Lappi; or Sápmi; or Lapponia)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                      Round 6


(6)     This city's Fort Adams State Park contains the Commandant's Residence used by
Dwight Eisenhower. This city contains White Horse, the oldest tavern in the United States,
and a letter written to George Washington by Moses Seixas is annually recited in this city's
Touro Synagogue, the oldest in the United States. Located on Aquidneck Island on
Narragansett Bay, for the point, what is this Rhode Island summer resort?

ANSWER: Newport

(7)     This region's Ogoni people protested against Shell Oil's expansion as part of the
MOSOP movement. This region, that spans the states of Abia, Ondo, and Edo, is also
inhabited by the Ijaw People. This region was nicknamed "Oil Rivers" due to its palm oil
production, though its petroleum business, based out of Port Harcourt, is more lucrative
today. For the point, name this region near the mouth of West Africa's longest river.

ANSWER: Niger [[nee-ZHEHR]] Delta (accept Oil Rivers before mentioned; prompt on
"Nigeria" or "Niger")

(8)     This city contains the Meyer May House which was designed by Frank Lloyd Wright.
This city, which is nicknamed "Furniture City," contains the headquarters of Spectrum
Health as well as the Gerald R. Ford Presidential Museum, though the Ford library is located
in Ann Arbor to the east of this city. For the point, name this second-most populous city in
Michigan, named for its former location on a series of falls.

ANSWER: Grand Rapids

(9)     This island's administrative regions include Calabarzon and Mimaropa. This island's
Ifugao [[ee-foo-GOW]] Province is home to the historic Banaue [[BAH-noo-weh]] Rice
Terraces, and this island was known as Nueva Castilla during Spanish occupation. Mount
Pinatubo is located on this island, whose major cities include Quezon City and Manila. For
the point, name this largest and most-populous island of the Philippines.

ANSWER: Luzon

(10) This city contains an unmarked grave called the Vampire's Crypt, and its Fort
LeBoeuf [[luh-BUHF]] is supposedly haunted by ghosts from the Eagle Hotel. In a "Gauge
War" in this city, citizens fought the standardization of railroad tracks. This city's harbor is
hemmed in by Presque Isle, the home port of the USS Niagara. For the point, name this
Pennsylvania port that shares its name with one of the Great Lakes.

ANSWER: Erie (accept Lake Erie after "Lakes" is mentioned)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                      Round 6


(11) This city is called the “White Stone Town” due to its abundance of limestone
buildings. This city is home to Stephen the Great Central Park, which is the oldest park in its
country and is named after a prince who opposed Ottoman rule. This city lies on the Bac
River, a tributary of the Dniester. For the point, name this most-populous city and capital of
Moldova.

ANSWER: Chisinau [[kish-ih-NOW]]

(12) This island's longest river is the Poronay, and Korean Airlines Flight 007 was shot
down over this island. Yuzhno is the largest city on this island, which was formerly
connected to Khabarovsk [[kah-BAH-rofsk]] by a train ferry across the Strait of Tartary. The
La Perouse Strait separates this island's Ainu population from Hokkaido. Lying at the mouth
of the Amur River, for the point, what is this largest island of Russia?

ANSWER: Sakhalin

(13) The largest courier company in Europe has its headquarters in this city's semi-
elliptical Post Tower. Friedrich Nietzsche and Karl Marx graduated from the university of
this city, whose Hammerschmidt Villa is the German president's secondary residence. This
city, at the southern end of the Rhine-Ruhr Metropolitan area, was Beethoven's birthplace.
For the point, name this former capital of West Germany.

ANSWER: Bonn (accept Bonn Republic)

(14) This island contains a coral reef system that stretches from Saint-Leu [[sahn-LOO]]
to Saint Gilles [[sahn-ZHEEL]]. This island's landscape is defined by the Piton de la
Fournaise and Piton des Neiges [[deh-NEZH]], the highest peak of the Indian Ocean. Saint-
Denis [[sahn-deh-NEE]] is the capital of this island, whose creole language has Malagasy,
Portuguese, and Indian influences. For the point, name this island, an overseas department
of France.

ANSWER: La Réunion

(15) This administrative area's ward Larvotto contains its country's only public beach.
This area is one of the traditional quarters of its country, along with Fontvieille [[fohnt-vee-
YEH-uh]] and La Condamine [[kohn-dah-MEEN]], and this area's Le Louis XV [[FIFTEEN]]
restaurant was the first to earn three Michelin Stars. Home to the Grimaldi Forum, for the
point, what is this area that hosts the Monaco Grand prix, famed for its casino?

ANSWER: Monte Carlo (accept Monte Carlo Casino; or Casino de Monte-Carlo; prompt on
“Monaco”)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                    Round 6


(16) They're not Orthodox Christians, but these people formerly spoke languages like
East Numidian and Guanche. The easternmost community of these people live in the Siwa
Oasis, and the blue, yellow, and green flag of these people features a letter of the Tifinagh
alphabet. Also known as Amazigh, the Tuareg are a subset of, for the point, what North
African people who inhabit Morocco and Tunisia?

ANSWER: Berbers (accept Amazighs before mentioned; prompt on “Tuareg”)

(17) This autonomous community is home to the Tabernas Desert, the only desert
located in Europe. The primary river of this region is the Guadalquivir, which ends at the
Atlantic Ocean in the Doñana [[dohn-YAH-nah]] marshes. The cold soup gazpacho
originates from this region, as does the musical art form known as flamenco. For the point,
name this region, an autonomous community in the south of Spain.

ANSWER: Andalusia (or Andalucía; prompt on “Spain”)

(18) The Blue Mountains and Snowy Mountains pass through this state and make up part
of its country's Great Dividing Range. This state, that contains Hawkesbury and the Harbour
Bridge, also hosts a performing arts venue with concrete shell-like features that was created
by Danish architect Jorn Utzon. For the point, name this Australian state, home to the
Sydney Opera House.

ANSWER: New South Wales (or NSW)

(19) This country, whose northern border is formed by the Mohokare River, also
contains the peak of Thabana Ntlenyana [[TAH-bah-nah nn-tel-en-YAH-nah]] in its Maloti
Mountains. This country's lowest point is a mile above sea level on the banks of the Orange
River. Basutoland is the former name of, for the point, what country which is completely
surrounded by South Africa?

ANSWER: Kingdom of Lesotho [[leh-SOO-too]]

(20) This polity, overlooked by the Guia Fortress, is the most densely populated country-
equivalent in the world, consisting of a peninsula that extends off of Zhuhai and the islands
of Coloane and Taipa. This city, west of the Pearl River estuary, is the center of the world's
largest gambling industry and is nicknamed the "Las Vegas of Asia." For the point, name this
former Portuguese colony in China, a special administrative region with Hong Kong.

ANSWER: Macau Special Administrative Region (accept MASR, Aomen Tebie Xingzhengqu,
or Regiao Administrativa Especial de Macau)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                        Round 6


(21) This island is home to the Algherese dialect of Catalan. This island is also home to
several round, stone towers called nuraghe [[noo-RAH-geh]]. This island's longest rivers are
the Flumendosa and the Tirso. This island's flag depicts a red cross on a white background
with four heads. This island's northern shore is made up by the Strait of Bonifacio, and its
capital and largest city is Cagliari. For the point, name this Mediterranean island located
south of Corsica.

ANSWER: Autonomous Region of Sardinia

(22) This country's Morne Trois Pitons [[mohrn-twah-pee-TOHN]] National Park
contains Boiling Lake, the world's second-largest hot spring. This country, home to the last
Kalingo, or Island Carib, population, is one of the two to have purple on its flag, as it displays
the sisserou parrot on a green background. Located between Martinique and Guadeloupe
and governed from Roseau, for the point, what is this island nation, named by Columbus for
the day of the week on which he first saw it?

ANSWER: Commonwealth of Dominica

(23) This province's Upper Peace Region is anchored by the city of Grande Prairie. This
province's large natural gas reserves are centered around the city of Medicine Hat. This
province's other major cities include Lethbridge and Red Deer. This province's portion of
the Rockies contains Banff National Park, and the petroleum industry in this province is
centered on the Athabasca Oil Sands. For the point, name this Canadian province, which
includes the city of Edmonton.

ANSWER: Alberta

(24) This island's national dish is called goat water, or kiddy stew, and this island is
CARICOM's only full member that is not an independent nation. This island, home to the
world's only uninhabited de jure capital, is relocating its capital a second time to Little Bay.
The eruption of the Soufriere [[soo-free-EHR]] Hills forced this island to relocate its capital
to Brades [[BRAHD]] from Plymouth in 1997. For the point, name this British territory
between Nevis, Antigua, and Guadeloupe.

ANSWER: Montserrat [[mohnt-seh-RAT]] (accept pronunciation as [[mohnt-seh-RAH]])

(25) The tallest example of these landforms is named for Federico Kirbus in Argentina's
Catamarca Province, and another example is named simply "7" in Namibia. A national park
protecting "Great" examples of these landforms is located in the Sangre de Cristo Range, and
Barchan and Transverse are examples of this landform common in the "Empty Quarter" of
Saudi Arabia. For the point, name these landforms that consist of hills of sand

ANSWER: Sand Dunes (accept Duna Federico Kirbus; accept Dune 7; accept Great Sand
Dunes National Park and Preserve; accept Barchan dune; accept Transverse dune)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                      Round 6


(26) This U.S. state's Rogers Pass recorded the lowest temperature in the contiguous
United States. This state contains the Bob Marshall Wilderness Complex, which is home to
the greatest grizzly bear concentration in the Lower 48 states. This largest landlocked state
in the U.S. is the only one to border three Canadian provinces. For the point, identify this
U.S. state that shares Yellowstone National Park with Idaho and Wyoming.

ANSWER: Montana

(27) An island in this state between the Kollidam and Kaveri Rivers contains Sri
Ranganathaswamy [[rahng-ah-nah-thah-SWAH-mee]], the world's largest, functioning
Hindu Temple. This state contains the junction of the Eastern and Western Ghats. This state
contains, Kanyakumari, or Cape Comorin, India's southernmost mainland point, and its
capital is Chennai. For the point, name this state, named for a Dravidian ethnic group.

ANSWER: Tamil Nadu (accept TN)

(28) One of these buildings in a Sydney facility called Kingsford Smith is known for its
flower-like design. The practice of RVT would make these buildings obsolete, and these
buildings currently use surface movement radar. The tallest example of these buildings in
the U.S. is located in a facility called Hartsfield-Jackson. For the point, name these buildings
where people who help direct airplanes usually work.

ANSWER: Air Traffic Control Tower (accept ATC Tower; prompt on partial answers;
prompt on “airport[s]”)

(29) This mountain range's North Yungas Road is often nicknamed the "Road of Death,"
while its Uspallata [[oos-pah-YAH-tah]] pass is overlooked by a statue of Jesus Christ, near
the ski resort of Portillo [[por-TEE-yoh]]. All of the world's volcanoes over six thousand
meters tall are part of this mountain range, including Pichincha [[peen-CHEEN-chah]] and
Cayambe [[kah-YAHM-beh]], the only point on the Equator to have snow cover. For the
point, what is this longest mountain range in the world, "South America's backbone"?

ANSWER: Andes Mountains (accept Andean Mountains)

(30) With Osceola County, this county now administers part of the Reedy Creek
Improvement District after an allegedly retaliatory bill for opposition to the Parental Rights
in Education Act. The United States’ second-largest university by enrollment, UCF, is located
in this county which is also home to Universal Studios and Cinderella Castle at Magic
Kingdom. For the point, name this county where the IAC Middle School National
Championships is being held in 2022, named for a citrus fruit.

ANSWER: Orange County
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                    Round 6


Extra Questions
(1)    This country's River Gee and Maryland counties are noted for their simplistic flags
derided by vexillologists. This country hosted an extremely fraudulent election in 1927,
when Charles D.B. King won over 200 thousand votes in a country of 15 thousand voters. In
2005, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf was elected Africa's first female leader in this country which was
founded by the American Colonization Society. For the point, name this country, governed
from Monrovia.

ANSWER: Republic of Liberia

(2)     Two animals in this order are depicted holding a shield on Ascension Island's flag,
and this animal tops the flag of the Cayman Islands. Costa Rica's Tortuguero [[tor-too-
HWEH-roh]] National Park protects a beach which is home to this animal's largest nesting
site. This animal is divided into "hidden neck" and "side neck" groups, and "Lonesome
George" was an animal in this order which are native to Pinta Island of the Galapagos
archipelago. For the point, name these animals, which include tortoises, known for their
shells.

ANSWER: Turtles (accept Testudines; accept specific types of Turtles; anti-prompt on
"tortoise" or specific types of "tortoise" before mentioned)
