2022 Middle School National Geography bee                                           Semifinals



(MS) Geography Bee Semifinals
Regulation Tossups
(1)     This archipelago is traversed by the Middle East's first monorail, which shuttles
visitors from Internet City to an Atlantis Resort. This archipelago shares its shape with
archipelagoes at Deira and Jebel Ali, and this archipelago, southwest of the World (+)
Islands, is named for the Jumeirah neighborhood. Constructed in the style of a specific
type (*) of tree, for the points, what is this artificial archipelago off Dubai's coast?

ANSWER: Palm Jumeirah (accept Palm Islands)

(2)      This state contains Beto Carrero World, Latin America's largest theme park,
and its city of Blumenau hosts the largest Oktoberfest in the Americas. The only
recorded South Atlantic hurricane in history was named for this state and affected
cities in this state including Joinville (+) and Itajaí. Governed from the island-capital of
Florianópolis (*) is, For the points, what Brazilian state between Paraná and Rio Grande do
Sol?

ANSWER: Estado de Santa Catarina

(3)     This city's Diamond Tooth Gertie's Gambling Hall is the oldest casino in Canada,
and its Nuggets hockey team lost the most lopsided Stanley Cup match in history to
Ottawa in 1905. This city, nicknamed the "Paris of the North," is among the
westernmost to use Mountain (+) Time. This city's Bonanza Creek was the site of a gold
discovery in 1896, which led to the largest gold rush in history and was named for the
(*) Klondike Region. For the points, name this second-largest city in Yukon.

ANSWER: Dawson City (or City of Dawson)

(4)     This mountain's highest point is known as Low's Peak, named after a British
official who ascended it with a Dusun guide. In 2015, some natives blamed an
earthquake, that killed 18 people and rendered this mountain's Mesilau Trail
unusable, on a group of tourists who (+) urinated on it while hiking up. This peak,
Asia's highest mountain island, is located in the Crocker Range of Sabah, and contains
the massive rafflesia (*) flower as well as orangutans on its slopes. For the points, name this
highest peak of Malaysia and Borneo.

ANSWER: Mount Kinabalu (or Gunung Kinabalu)
2022 Middle School National Geography bee                                         Semifinals


(5)    This city is the northern terminus of the Sounder commuter rail, and this city is
separated from Whidbey Island by Possession Sound. This city, the seat of Snohomish
County, recorded the first case of COVID-19 in the United States, and its Paine Field
adjoins a factory (+) that is the world's largest building by volume, where the
Dreamliner is built. Home to the production site of Boeing's (*) aircraft is, for the points,
what Washington city, north of Seattle?

ANSWER: Everett (accept Boeing Everett Factory)

(6)     This city's Maydan al Shajara square was formerly known for its Atlas Cedar
tree and is located on Gamal Abdel al-Nasser Street. The "Lion of the Desert" was
executed in this city for leading resistance against Italian (+) colonial officials. Fathi
Terbil's arrest in this city in 2011 set off a Civil War, which led to this Cyrenaican [[sy-
reh-NAY-ih-kan]] city becoming the headquarters of the National Transitional Council.
(*) For the points, name this second-largest city of Libya.

ANSWER: Benghazi

(7)     It's not Yosemite, but El Capitan is a famous site in this national park, used as a
landmark by the Butterfield Overland Mail stagecoach line. A petroleum geologist built
a house called the "Ship on the Desert" in this national park's McKittrick Canyon. Dell
City (+) in Hudspeth County is the southern gateway to this national park, which
unofficially observes Mountain Time. Towering over the Chihuahuan (*) Desert is, for
the points, what national park which is home to Texas's highest peak?

ANSWER: Guadalupe Mountains National Park (prompt on partial answers; prompt on
"Guadalupe Peak")

(8)    This region's Maoke Mountains supposedly contained the world's most
equatorial ski resort on the now-melted Meren Glacier. This region, that includes
outlying islands including Biak and Dolak was the subject of the 1962 New York
Agreement. (+) This region's only road networks are centered around the Bird's Head
Peninsula and Jayapura, and it contains Puncak Jaya. Sharing (*) an island with a country
governed from Port Moresby, for the points, what is this region?

ANSWER: Western New Guinea (accept any answer that indicates the Indonesian section
of New Guinea; accept West Papua or Papua Barat; accept Irian Jaya, Irian Barat or
West Irian; prompt on "New Guinea"; prompt on "Indonesia"; do not accept or prompt on
answers that mention "Papua New Guinea" or "Eastern New Guinea")
2022 Middle School National Geography bee                                       Semifinals


(9)     This river's source lies at the pyramidal peak of Monte Viso in the Cottian Alps,
and its mouth lies near the city of Adria [[AH-dree-ah]], only a few miles from the Adige
[[AH-deed-zheh]] River's mouth. This river, which drains Ticino [[tee-CHEE-noh]]
Canton, (+) including Lake Maggiore [[mah-jee-OH-reh]] and Lake Lugano, forms much
of Emilia-Romagna's northern border and also flows through the capital city of
Piedmont, (*) Turin. For the points, name this longest river of Italy.

ANSWER: Po River

(10) This archipelago's village of Hog Hammock on Sapelo [[SAP-eh-loh]] Island is
illegal to visit without a tourism permit, and its town of Port Royal contains the Marine
Corps Recruit Training for troops living east of the Mississippi. This archipelago's
"Golden Isles," (+) including St. Simons and Jekyll Island, hosted the G8 summit and are
accessible from Brunswick. Inhabited by the Gullah (*) is, for the points, what archipelago
off of the coast of Georgia?

ANSWER: Sea Islands

(11) Grand Duke Jogaila [[yoh-"GUY"-lah]] rested on an oak in this area before the
Battle of Grunwald, where King Sigismund later instituted one of the world's first anti-
poaching laws in 1538. Hermann Göring wanted to turn this area into the world's
largest hunting preserve, (+) and in this region, the treaty that dissolved the Soviet
Union was signed. Known for its European Bison, this area is the largest remaining
primeval forest (*) in Europe. For the points, name this Belarusian-Polish forest.

ANSWER: Białowieża [[BYAH-woh-VYEH-zhah]] Forest (or Belovezhskaya Puschcha; or
Puszcza Białowieska; be very lenient on pronunciation)

(12) This lake, known as Kati Thanda in Ngarabana, is where the Bluebird-Proteus
CN7 set the world land speed record in 1964. This endorheic lake is fed by the
Warburton River and is part of the Great Artesian Basin. This seasonal lake lies
between Lake Torrens (+) and the Simpson Desert and contains the highest
continental low point, at only 52 feet below sea level. The Goyder Channel connects (*)
the North and South sections of, for the points, what largest lake in Australia?

ANSWER: Lake Eyre

(13) This mountain range's site Durupınar is said to contain the petrified ruins of
Noah's Ark. This mountain range supposedly contained the entrance to the
underworld of Kur according to the Sumerians, and Sulaymaniyah [[SOO-lay-mah-NYE-
ah]] and Shiraz (+) are cities in this mountain range that roughly stretches from Lake
Van to the Strait of Hormuz. This mountain range, formed by the collision of the
Eurasian and Arabian plates is largely inhabited by Kurds. (*) For the points, name this
mountain range between Iraq and Iran.

ANSWER: Zagros Mountains (or Koyal Zagros; or Çiyakani Zagros)
2022 Middle School National Geography bee                                         Semifinals


(14) The largest town on this river is Longview, while its mouth at Port Arthur is the
site of Motiva, the largest oil refinery in the U.S. This river was the smallest of the three
used to create the Viceroyalty of New Spain's borders in the (+) Adams-Onis Treaty.
This river contains the largest manmade lake in the Southern U.S., the Toledo Bend
Reservoir. Forming much of the border between Texas (*) and Louisiana, for the points,
what is this river?

ANSWER: Sabine River

(15) This island is separated from the mainland via the Menai Strait, and the
Cymyran [[ky-mih-RAHN]] Strait separates it from the busy ferry port of Holy Head.
This island, known as Ynys Môn [[AH-ness MAHN]] in its native language, contains the
town (+) Llanfairpwllgwyngyll [[LAN-fire-puhl-GWIN-gill]], which has the longest place
name in Europe. This largest island of the Irish Sea is visible from Snowdonia (*)
National Park.. For the points, name this largest island of Wales.

ANSWER: Isle of Anglesey (accept Ynys Môn until mentioned)

(16) It's not Saint Martin, but this island's Mai Khao beach is known for its close-up
views of airplanes landing at its airport, its country's third-busiest behind Don Muang
Airport. A "Big Buddha" monument overlooks this island connected to Phang (+) Nga
Province by the Sarasin Bridge in the Andaman Sea. With its active nightlife centered
on Patong, (*) for the points, what is this largest island in Thailand?

ANSWER: Phuket (accept Phuket province)

(17) This river, which forms much of La Rioja's [[ree-OH-hahs]] border, historically
marked the Roman-Carthaginian border. Behind the Nile, this river is the largest to
flow into the Mediterranean Sea, and this river's delta in the Province of Tarragona (+)
marks the Gulf of Valencia's northern extent. Flowing past Zaragoza, the capital of
Aragon is, into the Balearic (*) Sea, for the points, what is this longest river completely
within Spain?

ANSWER: Ebro (or Ebre)

(18) This polity's city Julfa was home to the world's largest collection of khachkar
gravestones before their destruction in the 1990s. This polity's namesake capital
includes the Momine Khatun Mausoleum and was allegedly founded by Noah after the
biblical flood. (+) This region was the birthplace of Heydar Aliyev, and this polity's
western and southern borders are formed by the Aras River, including a small border
with Turkey. An Sandwiched between Armenia (*) and Iran, for the points, what is this
exclave of Azerbaijan?

ANSWER: Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic (or Naxçıvan Muxtar Respublikası)
2022 Middle School National Geography bee                                          Semifinals


(19) With a name translating to "honey lake," this lake is separated from the
Ghoubbet-el-Kharab cove by the Ardoukoba, and the Issa Clan harvested salt from it.
This lake, located at the junction of the Arta, Tadjoura, and Dikhil Regions is the
world's most saline (+) lake outside of Antarctica, and this lowest point of the Great
Rift Valley outside of Israel is situated on the Afar Triangle. The site of the lowest (*)
point in Africa, for the points, what is this crater lake in Djibouti?

ANSWER: Lake Assal (or Buḥayrah ʿAsal)

(20) This region includes the domestic exclave of Comines-Warneton and five
exclaves of another country formed from the defunct Vennbahn railway. Mons and
Namur are cities of this region whose town of Spa, nestled in the Ardennes, gave its
name (+) to the modern English term. This region, which contains the smallest
German-speaking community in its country, has traditionally been represented with a
red rooster. (*) For the points, name this majority French-speaking region of Belgium.

ANSWER: Wallonia (or Wallonie; accept Waals gewest)

(21) This city isn't in Spain, but it contains the Estadio Monumental Banco Pichincha
[[pee-CHEEN-chah]] used by the Barcelona Sporting Club. This city's namesake gulf
contains Puna Island, and this city was the site of an 1822 meeting between José de San
Martín and Simón de Bolívar (+) to discuss post-colonial South America's future. This
city on the Guayas [[GWAH-yahs]] River is the main gateway to the Galapagos (*)
Islands. For the points, name this largest city of Ecuador.

ANSWER: Santiago de Guayaquil (or Wayakil; accept Gulf of Guayaquil; accept Guayaquil
conference)

(22) This national park houses a significant percentage of the global Musk Ox
population and is home to King Christian X [[the TENTH]] Land. This park's Geologfjord
[[JEE-oh-lohg-fyord]], which includes the Nunatak Glacier, can be accessed via boat
from Ittoqqortoormiit [[ee-TOHK-oh-toor-mit]]. (+) This national park includes
Summit Station, a center of coring activities 10,000 feet above sea level on a massive
ice sheet. The largest national park in (*) the world, for the points, what is this park which
occupies a quarter of the world's largest island.

ANSWER: Northeast Greenland National Park
2022 Middle School National Geography bee                                     Semifinals


(23) This highway only enters its namesake city on a section called the Woodrow
Wilson Bridge, which passes by National Harbor, and another bridge on this highway
connects Montgomery County to Langley. (+) This highway, formally known as
Interstate 495, is concurrent with I-95 for its southern and eastern sections, and
Bethesda and Alexandria are cities along this highway which passes over the (*)
Potomac twice. For the points, name this highway that encircles Washington, D.C.

ANSWER: Capital Beltway (accept Interstate 495 before mentioned; prompt on
"Beltway"; prompt on descriptive answers of the highway around DC)

(24) This lake was the largest of a system that included Zumpango and Chalco, which
hosted a type of salamander called the axolotl [[ak-soh-LAH-til]]. The draining of this
lake has been cited as the reason for a recent lack of snow in the Anahuac [[ah-NAH-
hwahk]] (+) region, and this lake's dry bed was proposed to be the site of an airport to
replace Benito Juárez International Airport. (*) For the points, name this lake on which
the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan was built.

ANSWER: Lake Texcoco (or Lago de Texcoco)

(25) This phenomenon is funneled through the Soledad and Cajón [[kah-HOHN]]
passes. This phenomenon is preceded by Sundowner winds in the Santa Ynez [[EE-
nehs]] Mountains, and this phenomenon, that originates from dry high-pressure air
masses in the Great Basin, (+) expedited the burning of houses in San Bernardino and
(*) Malibu. For the points, name these winds that often spread wildfires in Southern
California.

ANSWER: Santa Ana Winds (or Devil Winds)

(26) This river, that includes the Supung and Ubung Dams, was nicknamed "MiG
Alley" in the 1950s. Sinuiju [[sin-EE-joo]] and Dadong are twin cities located at the
mouth of this river also known as the Amnok. This river, like the Tumen, also has its
source on Paektu (+) Volcano. This river was crossed by the People's Volunteer Army
in 1950 to counter encroaching UN forces. Forming the western border between (*)
North Korea and China, for the points, what is this river?

ANSWER: Yalu River (accept Amnok or Amrok before "Amnok" is mentioned)

(27) Arms of this body of water include the Gulf of Catania and the Laconian Gulf.
Major islands in this body of water include Kefalonia, Zakynthos, and Corfu. The
historic port of Syracuse is along this arm of the Mediterranean, which is home to the
Calypso Deep. (+) This body of water makes up the southern coast of Albania and the
western coast of the Peloponnese. Connected to the Tyrrhenian Sea (*) by the Strait of
Messina, for the points, what is this European sea located south of the Adriatic?

ANSWER: Ionian Sea (prompt on "Mediterranean" before mentioned)
2022 Middle School National Geography bee                                     Semifinals


(28) This city in the Mashonaland region is known for its Eastgate Centre complex
which uses natural cooling. This city's tallest building, the New Reserve Bank Tower, is
headquarters of an organization that printed a dollar bill with the most zeroes in
history in 2008. (+) This city was formerly known as Salisbury when it was the capital
of Rhodesia, before it got its current name in 1982 from Robert (*) Mugabe. For the
points, name this capital of Zimbabwe.

ANSWER: Harare (accept Salisbury before mentioned)

(29) This mountain range contains Hunter Mountain, as well as its highest peak,
Slide Mountain. Along with the Poconos, this mountain range forms an eastern
escarpment of the Allegheny Plateau, which was formerly nicknamed the "Borscht
Belt" (+) or "Jewish Alps" for its Orthodox tourists during the summer. Located
between the Delaware and (*) Hudson Rivers, this is, for the points, what mountain range
in Southern New York?

ANSWER: Catskill Mountains (or Catskills)

(30) This city administers the National Park Reserve of Sable Island and is home to
three campuses of Dalhousie [[dal-HOW-see]] University. This city annually sends a
Christmas tree to Boston in memory of the aid this city was sent following the 1917
collision of the SS Mont-Blanc (+) and the SS Imo, which devastated this city and nearby
Dartmouth in the largest pre-nuclear (*) explosion in history. For the points, name this
capital of Nova Scotia.

ANSWER: Halifax (accept Halifax Explosion)
2022 Middle School National Geography bee                                         Semifinals


Extra Questions
(1)    This city houses the National Czech and Slovak Museum and Library and the
oldest surviving purpose-built Mosque in the U.S. In a viral 2016 video, Hillary Clinton
said she "was just chilling" in this city where catastrophic flooding in 2008 submerged
the (+) Linn County Courthouse. Home to the studio where Grant Wood painted
American Gothic (*), this is, for the points, what second-largest Iowa city, named for nearby
cascades?

ANSWER: Cedar Rapids

(2)     This city's main plaza Marienplatz is famed for its Mariensäule [[mah-REE-en-
soy-leh]] column and a tower that contains the Rathaus-Glockenspiel clock. This city
on the Isar River hosted the 1972 (+) Summer Olympics, marred by the murder of 11
Israeli athletes by the Palestinian Black September terrorist organization. Hosting the
original Oktoberfest (*) is, for the points, what German city, the capital of Bavaria?

ANSWER: Munich (or München; or Minga)

(3)     The Manga District of this nation has been disputed after much of it was given
to a neighbor through the Radcliffe Line. The Ahsan Manzil is a distinct pink palace
along the Buringa River in this nation’s capital, originally used as an abode for a local
Nawab. (+) The shipbreaking capital of the world is this nation’s port of Chittagong. (*)
For the points, name this South Asian country with capital at Dhaka.

ANSWER: People's Republic of Bangladesh (accept Gana Prajatantri Bangladesh)
