2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                   Quarterfinals



(MS) Geography Bee Quarterfinals
Regulation Tossups
(1)     This largest city on the Lech [[LEK]] River contains the world's oldest public
housing complex still in use, the Fuggerei [[foo-gehr-"EYE"]], where residency costs
about one Euro per year. This city, at the eastern edge of Swabia [[SWAY-bee-ah]], is
the third-largest behind (+) Nuremberg in Bavaria. The Schmalkaldic League and the
Holy Roman Emperor formalized the Lutheran-Catholic split through the Peace (*) of
[This City]. For the points, name this city, 31 miles west of Munich.

ANSWER: Augsburg (accept Peace of Augsburg)

(2)    This feature, west of the Seven Devils Mountains, includes the Oxbow and
Brownlee Dams. Partly located in the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest, this natural
feature was the site of an 1887 massacre of 34 Chinese miners who departed from
Lewiston, (+) as memorialized by a plaque which is partly written in Nez Perce.
Surrounding the Snake River (*) between Idaho and Oregon, for the points, what is this
deepest river gorge in North America?

ANSWER: Hells Canyon

(3)    This island's largest settlement is Olonkin Town, and its two halves are linked
by an isthmus that contains Nordlaguna and Sørlaguna. Gravel is the sole natural
resource produced on this island which is part of Nordland County. (+) This island
contains the northern terminus of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge at its volcano Beerenberg.
Located 350 miles northeast of Iceland (*) is, for the points, what Norwegian island often
grouped with Svalbard?

ANSWER: Jan Mayen

(4)     This region, which encloses the exclave of Llívia [[LEEB-yah]], includes the
County of Foix [[FWAH]], the leader of which was historically co-prince with the Bishop
of Urgell. This region's town Beziers [[beh-ZYEH]], where the River Orb is crossed by
the Canal du Midi, (+) is known for its bullfighting. Home to the Roman Pont du Gard,
this region, located between Nouvelle-Aquitaine and Provence, includes cities such as
Toulouse and Montpellier. (*) For the points, name this region in south-central France.

ANSWER: Occitanie (or Occitania)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                      Quarterfinals


(5)    In this location in 2019, over 300 elephants died from cyanobacteria poisoning.
This location, which was once part of what used to be Lake Makgadikgadi [[mahk-GAH-
dee-GAH-dee]], now has its floodwaters drain into Lake Ngami. (+) The Moremi Game
Reserve is found to the east of this swampland formed in the endorheic basin of the
Kalahari Desert. Located in Botswana, (*) for the points, what is this inland river delta?

ANSWER: Okavango Delta (or Okavango Grassland; prompt on "Kalahari")

(6)    George Dorr is often called the "father" of this national park where the Green
Mountain Cog Railway formerly ferried visitors to Cadillac Mountain, the highest point
of the Atlantic Shoreline in the U.S. This national park is the oldest national park (+)
east of the Mississippi, and its land occupies much of Mount Desert Island and is
accessible from the town of Bar (*) Harbor. For the points, name this national park in
Maine.

ANSWER: Acadia National Park

(7)    This archipelago, which includes Severny and Yuzhny Islands, is located north
of Nenets Autonomous Okrug and contains Cape Flissingsky, the easternmost point of
Europe, although it's administered by Archangel Oblast. The largest nuclear (+)
explosion in history, the Tsar Bomba, occurred in this archipelago. Located between
the Kara and Barents (*) Seas in Russia, for the points, what is this extension of the Urals?

ANSWER: Novaya Zemlya

(8)       The town Port Radium is located along this body of water, where the Eldorado
uranium mine was formerly operated. This body of water's major inflows include the
Whitefish River and Bloody River. The largest settlement along the shores of this body
of water is named Deline [[DEH-lee-neh]]. (+) Two of this lake's five arms are named
for McTavish and McVicar. Located northwest of Great (*) Slave Lake, for the points, what
is this large lake in the Canadian Northwest Territories?

ANSWER: Great Bear Lake (or Sahtú)

(9)     This town is the base for daytrips to Saona and Catalina Islands and is served
by the first privately owned international airport in the world, which has palm fronds
for a roof. This town is part of the La Altagracia Province, governed from Higüey [[ee-
GWEH]], (+) and its Bávaro area contains two Meliá Hotels. This resort town,
nicknamed the "Coconut Coast," is located on the Mona Passage. (*) For the points, name
this resort town in the easternmost Dominican Republic.

ANSWER: Punta Cana
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                     Quarterfinals


(10) The Habshan–Fujairah pipeline lessens dependence on this strait bound to the
north by Qeshm Island and the port of Bandar Abbas. An exclave called the Musandam
Peninsula guards the entrance to this strait, and Mohammad Bagheri threatened to
close (+) this strait due to sanctions against his country, threatening a fifth of the
world's oil transport. Connecting the Indian (*) Ocean to the Persian Gulf, for the points,
what is this strait?

ANSWER: Strait of Hormuz (or Maḍīq Hurmuz)

(11) This city lies where the River Tawe flows into the Bristol Channel. This city was
once nicknamed “Copperopolis,” because of its large copper production during the
Industrial Revolution. This city is home to the Dylan Thomas Theater and Center, (+)
and is the birthplace of the poet as well as the actress Catherine Zeta-Jones. Located on
a namesake bay on the Gower Peninsula, (*) for the points, what is this second-most
populous city in Wales

ANSWER: Swansea (accept Swansea Bay)

(12) In this mountain range, the World Bank and IMF were created at the resort
Bretton Woods, situated near Crawford Notch, a pass that leads to Attitash Ski Resort.
The most prominent peak east of the Mississippi River is located in this mountain
range whose (+) "Presidential" section contains Mount Quincy Adams, and this range
formerly contained a rock formation called the "Old Man (*) of the Mountain." For the
points, name this mountain range topped by Mount Washington in New Hampshire.

ANSWER: White Mountains (prompt on "Appalachian")

(13) Some have proposed that gravity trains could travel between these types of
points. These points name an inhospitable volcanic archipelago 530 miles southeast of
Invercargill, and that archipelago happens to be one of these points with Normandy.
(+) Approximate types of these points include the paired cities of Madrid and
Wellington, as well as Buenos Aires and Shanghai. People have made "earth
sandwiches" (*) using, for the points, what points that are located on opposite sides of the
globe?

ANSWER: Antipodes (accept Antipodes Islands; prompt on generic descriptions of points
on the opposite sides of the globe)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                      Quarterfinals


(14) A namesake junction along this street in the Silver Lake neighborhood passes
through Echo Park and the Holmby Hills. The world's largest Iranian diaspora was
profiled in a television show largely taking place in Westwood and titled Shahs of (+)
[This Street]. This street passes over the I-405 near the Getty Museum and ends at the
Pacific (*) Coast Highway. For the points, identify this Los Angeles Boulevard, which is home
to a namesake strip.

ANSWER: Sunset Boulevard (accept Shahs of Sunset; accept Sunset Junction; accept Sunset
Strip)

(15) This region, eleven miles wide at its narrowest, is the site of Lake Zorkul and is
part of Badakhshan Province. This region, home to the peak of Noshaq, was created as
a buffer zone in the "Great Game," and its Wakhjir Pass contains the world's greatest
time zone jump. The Pamir (+) and Panj Rivers bound this salient on the easternmost
part of the Durand Line, which separated Russian Turkestan from British India. With
a small border on (*) China, for the points, what is this easternmost part of Afghanistan?

ANSWER: Wakhan Corridor (or Dâlân Vâxân)

(16) This island's city Prospera is a Libertarian community that many have termed
a "start-up nation." The majority of this island's population are descended from
Cayman Islanders, although a significant portion were expelled from Saint Vincent and
are called (+) Garifuna. This island's capital is Coxen Hole, and it is the largest of the
Bay Islands, located between Guanaja and Utila. (*) For the points, name this largest
island of Honduras.

ANSWER: Roatan (or Rattan)

(17) This province's Wuyi Mountains are known for their Nine-bend River and
trademark Bohea tea. This province disputes the Kinmen Islands off the coast of Amoy,
or Xiamen [[SHYAH-MEN]], a major port of departure of Hokkien speakers to Southeast
Asia, and the (+) northernmost of China's four original Special Economic Zones. The
Min dialect is spoken in this province which is home to Fuzhou [[FOO-ZHOH]]. West of
the Formosa Strait (*) from Taiwan, for the points, what is this Chinese province?

ANSWER: Fujian (accept Fukien; accept Hokkien before mentioned)

(18) This company harvests from complexes like Ku-Maloob-Zaap and Cantarell in
the Bay of Campeche, which contain reservoirs formed from the rubble of the
Chicxulub [[chik-shoo-LOOB]] crater. Operation Car Wash revealed Brazilian
conglomerate Odebrecht won contracts (+) from this company after supporting
Enrique Peña Nieto's presidential campaign, and this company was also blamed for
1992 explosions in Guadalajara. (*) For the points, name this state-owned oil company of
a country south of the U.S.

ANSWER: Pemex (or Petróleos Mexicanos)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                        Quarterfinals


(19) This river's city Moorhead was named after a Northern Pacific railway
executive, just like its twin city to the west. This river is formed by the Otter and the
Bois de Sioux [[bwah duh-SOO]] Rivers, the southernmost part of the Hudson Bay
watershed. This river flows through (+) Winnipeg and forms some of the North Dakota-
Minnesota border. Sharing its name with another river which (*) forms much of the
border of Texas and Oklahoma, for the points, what is this river "of the North"?

ANSWER: Red River of the North

(20) A 2017 documentary about this city, titled City of Ghosts, won the Courage
Under Fire Award for its story of a citizen journalist group called "[This City] is Being
Slaughtered Silently." The Qasr al-Banat, or "Palace of the Ladies," is located in this city
east of the Tabqa Dam, (+) whose Shia Uwais al-Qarni Mosque was destroyed in 2014.
The largest city of Rojava and the capital of (*) the Islamic State until its 2017 capture, for
the points, what is this Syrian city?

ANSWER: ar-Raqqah (accept Raqqa is Being Slaughtered Silently)

(21) This facility, adjoined by the Point Arguello Light, was damaged by the Canyon
Fire, and its location is optimal to allow for polar orbit launches without passing over
other landmasses. Amtrak's Coast Starlight passes through this facility, running by the
Lompoc–Surf station, (+) although the Pacific Coast Highway bends inland around it
towards Santa Maria. The first privately-developed liquid-fueled rocket launched (*)
from this base, SpaceX's Falcon 1. For the points, name this spaceport on California's Central
Coast.

ANSWER: Vandenberg Space Force Base (or KVBG)

(22) This island, the easternmost Zapovednik, is bound by the Long Strait. This
island's namesake never saw it, while trying to discover it, during the Kolymskaya
expedition. This island is the northernmost piece of land through which the 180th
meridian passes (+) and was home to the last population of Woolly Mammoths. Located
between the East Siberian and Chukchi (*) Seas, for the points, what is this Siberian island?

ANSWER: Wrangel Island (or Ostrov Vrangelya; or Umqiḷir; accept Ferdinand von
Wrangel)

(23) The Tanbi Wetland Complex is located southwest of this city that was leased
from the king of Kombi in 1651. The 100 dalasis banknote features Mandinka people
gathering rope near this city, known for its Albert Market and Arch 22. (+) This city,
located on St. Mary's Island, is connected via the Denton Bridge to Serrekunda. (*) For
the points, name this capital of The Gambia.

ANSWER: City of Banjul (accept Bathurst)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                    Quarterfinals


(24) An official language on this archipelago is Carolinian, named for the nearby
Caroline Islands. This archipelago is home to the island of Tinian, the departure point
of the Enola Gay before dropping "Little Boy" on Japan. The indigenous language
Chamorro (+) is spoken on this archipelago whose islands also include Saipan and
Guam. (*) For the points, name this archipelago that gives its name to the Pacific Ocean's
deepest trench.

ANSWER: Marianas Islands (accept Northern Marianas Islands or NMI before "military" is
mentioned; accept Marianas Trench; prompt on "Micronesia"; do not accept or prompt on
"Guam")

(25) This mountain, south of the San Francisco Pass, likely contains the world's
highest lake, and it has been ascended by motorcycles and jeeps to gain the altitude
record for a wheeled vehicle. This mountain, part of the Seven Second Summits and the
Volcanic (+) Seven Summits, is named for pockets of salt that appear on glaciers
surrounding it and lies at the Atacama Desert's edge. The highest (*) volcano in the
world, for the points, what is Chile's highest mountain?

ANSWER: Nevado Ojos del Salado

(26) This island is indented by Hawke Bay, the Bay of Plenty, and the Hauraki Gulf
and has its northernmost point at Cape Reinga on the Aupouri Peninsula. This island
is home to Lake Taupo and Mount Ruapehu, as well as Hobbiton (+) and other filming
sites from The Lord of the Rings. The world's southernmost national capital, which is
located on the Cook Strait, (*) is on, for the points, what New Zealand island, home to
Wellington and Auckland?

ANSWER: North Island (accept Te Ika-a-Māui)

(27) In this city in 1966, Peter Wing was elected as the first Chinese mayor of a North
American city. The Sun Peaks Resort is located north of this city where the two
branches of the Thompson River meet. After Kelowna, this city is the largest of the
Okanagan (+) region and inland British Columbia. The unmarked graves of 200 Indian
Residential School residents were discovered (*) in 2021 in, for the points, what
"Tournament Capital of Canada"?

ANSWER: Kamloops (or Tk'əmlúps; accept Kamloops Indian Residential School)

(28) The Doukhobors emigrated to Canada from this city, whose Sheraton Hotel is
modeled after the Lighthouse of Alexandria. This city's DNA-shaped Alphabetic Tower
honors a script used for Kartvelian languages, and this city is the capital of Adjara. (+)
This city, where Joseph Stalin organized labor strikes, is nicknamed the "Las Vegas of
the Black Sea" and lies seven miles north of the Turkish (*) border. For the points, name
this largest port of Georgia.

ANSWER: Batumi
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                      Quarterfinals


(29) This lake's largest island, Reichenau, contains an abbey founded by Saint
Pirmin, while Bregenz and Lindau are towns located on its eastern shore. A namesake
town on this lake avoided bombing during World War Two by keeping its lights on, (+)
fooling pilots into thinking it was part of Thurgau Canton. The Rhine River flows
through this lake divided into Obersee [[OH-behr-zay]] and Untersee [[OON-tehr-zay]]
portions. Shared between (*) Austria, Switzerland, and Germany, for the points, what is this
lake?

ANSWER: Lake Constance (or Bodensee; accept Upper Lake Constance; accept Lower
Lake Constance)

(30) This city's Suncoast casino is located on its beachfront called the "Golden Mile,
also home to Moses Mabhida Stadium which hosted some matches of the 2010 FIFA
World Cup. This city's Ushaka Marine world takes its name from King Shaka. Mahatma
(+) Gandhi practiced law in this capital of KwaZulu-Natal, home to Africa's largest
Indian community. South Africa's (*) third-largest city, for the points, what is this port on
the Indian Ocean?

ANSWER: Durban (accept eThekwini; prompt on "Durbs")
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                       Quarterfinals


Extra Questions
(1)     This highland region is the origin of the Bourgeois Tarot deck used for playing
Cego [[SEH-goh]]. This region's highest peak Feldberg overlooks the Vosges [[VOHZH]]
on the opposite side of the Rhine River, and this region in (+) Baden-Württemberg
contains the source of the Danube River. A highland area in southwest (*) Germany, for
the points, what is this region known for its dense foliage and famed for its cuckoo clocks?

ANSWER: Black Forest (or Schwarzwald; prompt on "Baden-Württemberg" before
mentioned)

(2)     This river's basin is the only habitat of the gharial, a crocodilian known for its
long, thin snout. This river includes the Hooghly and Padma as distributaries, and
pilgrims cremate their loved ones (+) on this river's banks in the holy city of Varanasi.
This river's longest tributaries include the Yamuna and Brahmaputra, (*) and it empties
into the world's largest river delta. For the points, name this primary river of India.

ANSWER: Ganges River (accept Ganga; accept Padma River before mentioned)

(3)      The moving of this feature eastward around the Line Islands in 1995 caused
Caroline Island to be renamed Millennium Island. The westernmost piece of land east
of this feature is Attu island, part of the Aleutian (+) archipelago, and Samoa "skipped"
December 30th, 2011 by moving west across this feature. (*) Roughly following the
antimeridian is, for the points, what line through the Pacific Ocean that divides one day from
another?

ANSWER: International Date Line (accept IDL; do not accept or prompt on "antimeridian"
or the "180th meridian")
