2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                        Round 2



(MS) Geography Bee Round 2
Regulation Tossups
(1)     Tourists heading to this city in 2011 were rerouted to Kanas Lake due to a ETIM
terrorist attack, and this city's Id Kah Mosque was the site of an allegedly forced Eid al-Fitr
celebration in 2021. This city, home to the tomb of Afaq Khoja, is the Karakoram Highway's
northern terminus and was the First East Turkestan Republic's capital. For the point, name
this Uyghur [[WEE-gur]] city and former Silk Road center in extreme western China.

ANSWER: Kashgar (or Kashi)

(2)     This city, home to the hotels Les Caves du Roy [[leh-KAHV-du-WAH]] and Byblos, is
located across Sainte-Maxime from a namesake gulf. This city's namesake tart was created
by a Polish chef and was featured in the film And God Created Women. This city's clothing-
optional Tahiti Beach was popularized by Bridgette Bardot. For the point, name this city,
about halfway between Toulon and Cannes, located on the French Riviera and famed for its
"jet-set" crowd.

ANSWER: Saint-Tropez (accept Gulf of Saint-Tropez; accept La Tarte de Saint-Tropez;
prompt on "Tarte tropézienne")

(3)     This city's Japonski Island was named for stranded fishermen and is home to Rocky
Gutierrez Airport in the shadow of Mount Edgecumbe. This city, formerly known as Novo-
Arkhangelsk, contains the oldest Orthodox Cathedral in the Americas and is the largest city
in the US by size, occupying all of Baranof Island and half of Chichagof Island. For the point,
name this former capital of Russian America.

ANSWER: Sitka (or Sheetʼká; accept Novo-Arkhangelsk or New Archangel before
mentioned)

(4)      This desert's Cholistan section includes the circular Derawar Fort and is bounded by
the Sutlej River. This desert, occupied by the Jaisalmer [[JAY-sal-meer]] State until 1947,
stretches from the Rann of Kutch to Haryana, and the "Blue City" of Jodhpur lies at the edge
of this desert. The majority of this desert lies in the state of Rajasthan, and it is irrigated by
the Indira Gandhi Canal. For the point, name this desert split between Pakistan and India.

ANSWER: Thar Desert (accept Great Indian Desert before "India" is mentioned)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                       Round 2


(5)      This peninsula was the home of Europe's first anti-fascist organization, created in
the region of Goriška [[goh-REESH-kah]]. The Kvarner Gulf, which includes islands such as
Cres [[CHRESS]] and Krk [[KID-ik]], bounds this peninsula, traditionally represented by a
goat on a national flag, along with regions like Slavonia and Dalmatia. Pula is the largest city
of this peninsula. The Italian city of Trieste is found on, for the point, what largest peninsula
on the Adriatic?

ANSWER: Istrian Peninsula

(6)      This river begins two and a half miles from Gannett Peak and passes by the La Barge
oil field after merging with the Big Sandy River. This river passes through the Flaming Gorge
Reservoir and Dinosaur National Monument before meeting its end in Canyonlands
National Park, where it merges with a river formerly known as the Grand River. For the
point, name this longest tributary of the Colorado River, named for a color.

ANSWER: Green River

(7)      This city's Munhak Stadium hosted some matches of the 2002 FIFA World Cup and
is the home of the SK Wyverns baseball team. A free economic zone in this city is home to
Yeongjongdo [[YONG-JONG-DOH]], an island that is home to an airport that replaced Gimpo.
The Russo-Japanese War began at this city's Chemulpo Bay, where US forces landed in 1950
to ease pressure on troops in the Pusan Perimeter. For the point, name this third-largest
city in South Korea.

ANSWER: Incheon Metropolitan City (accept Chemulpo until mentioned)

(8)     This language has been used as a secret code in the New Folsom prison, referring to
gang leaders as achautli, or "chiefs." Huasteca is the most-spoken variant of this language
that forms a family with the Ute [[YOOT]] languages, and it was documented in the
Florentine Codex. The words for tomato and chocolate originate from this language, which
La Malinche [[mah-LEEN-cheh]] translated into Spanish for Hernán Cortés. For the point,
name this language spoken by the Aztec people in Mexico.

ANSWER: Nahuatl (accept Aztec or Mexicano before mentioned)

(9)     This city, served by the Chinese constructed Friendship Port and Oumtounsy
International Airport, is known for its vibrant fish market, mostly run by Wolof and Fula
merchants. This city became a national capital because of a compromise between the
Bidhan and Haratin and is halfway between Noudahibu and Saint-Louis [[sahn-loo-EE]]. For
the point, name this city on the western edge of the Sahel, Mauritania's capital.

ANSWER: Nouakchott
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                     Round 2


(10) This city on the Roaring Fork River contains Smuggler Mine, where the largest silver
nugget in history was found. This city's namesake mountain in the Elk Mountains is called
"Ajax" by locals, and that peak is one of this city's four ski areas along with Highlands,
Buttermilk, and Snowmass. Situated west of Mount Elbert, for the point, what posh
Colorado ski resort town shares its name with a type of tree?

ANSWER: Aspen (accept Aspen Mountain)

(11) While not independent yet, a narrow strip of territory from this modern-day
country was ceded to Afghanistan's Badakhshan Province. Recent conflicts with this
country’s neighbor, Kyrgyzstan, erupted over water scarcity in the Transoxania Region.
Other recent conflicts with China over this country’s Pamir region have weakened their
international cooperation. For the point, name this Central Asian country whose capital city
is Dushanbe.

ANSWER: Republic of Tajikistan (or Jumhurii Tojikiston)

(12) This city is known for its keyhole-shaped Mozu Tombs from the Kofun Era, which
are adjacent to Daisen Park. This city's CBD of Umeda is known for its uniquely shaped "sky
building" located on an island between the Dojima and Yodo Rivers, the latter of which
originates from Lake Biwa. This city is the center of the Kansai Region which also includes
Kobe and Kyoto. For the point, name this city, the center of Japan's second-largest metro
area.

ANSWER: Osaka

(13) Important islands in this lake include Maboko and Ukerewe [[oo-keh-REH-weh]]
Island. This lake is fed by the Kagera and Katonga Rivers, the latter of which links this lake
to Lake George. This lake is the sole natural habitat of nearly 500 cichlid fish species which
are threatened by invasive perch. This lake, which is the source of the White Nile, lies on the
junction between Uganda, Kenya, and Tanzania. For the point, name this largest lake in
Africa, named for a British queen.

ANSWER: Lake Victoria

(14) This country is home to the Hlane Royal National Park, and this country's flag,
displaying a black and white shield flanked by a staff and two spears, was designed by
Sobhuza II. His son, Mswati III, is the "lion-king" of this country and rules with the "She-
Elephant" queen, or Ndlovukati [[nnd-loh-voo-KAH-tee]]. With capitals at Lobamba, known
for its reed dance ceremony, and Mbabane, for the point, what is this country between
Mozambique and South Africa?

ANSWER: Kingdom of Eswatini (accept Umbuso weSwatini; accept Swaziland)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                   Round 2


(15) This country's Mount Yasur near Sulphur Bay is often called the world's most-
accessible volcano. This country's Yaohnanen people on Tanna are known for their cargo
cults which hold John Frum and Prince Phillip as holy figures. Efate and Espiritu Santo are
the largest islands of this country, formerly an Anglo-French condominium called the New
Hebrides. For the point, name this country governed from Port Vila.

ANSWER: Republic of Vanuatu (accept Ripablik blong Vanuatu; accept New Hebrides
before mentioned)

(16) This region's Cueva de las Manos, or Cave of Hands, depicts hundreds of handprints
and a herd of guanacos, a type of camelid. This region's divisions include Neuquén [[noo-
KEN]] and Chubut [[CHOO-boot]], and this dry region, that forms the southernmost part of
the "Arid Diagonal" with the Monte and Atacama Deserts, is separated from Tierra del
Fuego by the Strait of Magellan. For the point, name this region of Southern Argentina that
shares its name with a coat company.

ANSWER: Patagonia (accept Santa Cruz Province until "Neuquén" is mentioned; prompt
on "Argentina" until mentioned)

(17) This island's highest point, Diana's Peak, is located in Longwood. This island
contains a steep re-purposed funicular track, now known as Jacob's Ladder, that connects
Half Tree Hollow to Jamestown. This island, that administers Tristan da Cunha and
Ascension Island, is served by a weekly flight to Johannesburg via Windhoek [[WIND-
hook]]. For the point, name this British island in the Atlantic Ocean, the site of Napoleon's
second exile from 1815 until his death.

ANSWER: Saint Helena

(18) This country's Ruweng Administrative Area contains the disputed Unity Oil Field
which was previously part of the Unity State. This country's southern region of Equatoria
controversially claims ownership of the Ilemi Triangle. This country's largest ethnic groups
are the Dinka and the Nuer. This country contains the Sudd swamp which is formed by the
White Nile. Governed from Juba, for the point, what is this country that gained
independence in 2011 from Sudan?

ANSWER: Republic of South Sudan (do not accept or prompt on "Sudan")

(19) This city's Öskjuhlíd [[OHSK-yoo-leed]] hill contains an exhibition hall called Perlan,
which contains a replica of Látrabjarg [[LAH-trah-byarg]], Europe's largest bird cliff. This
city is served by Keflavík International Airport and contains a church with distinctive side
wings called Hallgrímskirkja [[HAHLT-greem-skeer-kyah]]. The world's northernmost
national capital, for the point, what is this capital of Iceland?

ANSWER: Reykjavík
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                     Round 2


(20) This company's first property was founded in Cisco, Texas, although its founder
originally intended to purchase a bank with that money. This company formerly ran
properties called Westgate and Flamingo in Las Vegas. This company's namesake "Beverly"
property hosts the Golden Globe ceremonies. The Conrad, Waldorf Astoria, and DoubleTree
are brands run by this company. Founded by a man with the first name Conrad, for the
point, what is this American hotel company?

ANSWER: Hilton Hotels & Resorts (accept The Beverly Hilton; accept Conrad Nicholson
Hilton Sr.)

(21) Volcanoes named Concepción [[kohn-sep-see-OHN]] and Maderas make up this
country's largest island, Ometepe [[oh-meh-TEP-eh]]. Major ports in this country include
Puerto Cabezas [[kah-BEH-sahs]], Bluefields, and Corinto. With its northern neighbor, this
country contains the Mosquito Coast. This country's namesake lake and the San Juan River
were once considered potential locations for what became the Panama Canal. For the point,
name this largest country of the Central American isthmus.

ANSWER: Republic of Nicaragua (or República de Nicaragua; accept Lake Nicaragua)

(22) This territory contains the Tower of Homage, part of its Moorish Castle. This
territory's Martin's Path and Lord Airey's Battery are linked by the Mediterranean Sea. This
territory's namesake "apes" are actually a semi-wild colony of Barbary Macaques. This
territory's namesake Rock is considered the northern of the two Pillars of Hercules. For the
point, name this British territory on the southern coast of Spain, which lies across a
namesake strait from Morocco.

ANSWER: Gibraltar (accept Apes of Gibraltar; accept Rock of Gibraltar; accept Strait of
Gibraltar)

(23) This city, served by Lynden Pindling Airport, hosts the world's largest Junkanoo
festival and shares its name with a New York county located east of Queens. Slave revolters
from the ship Creole settled in this city which is situated on New Providence island and
named in honor of William of Orange. Paradise Island's Atlantis Resort is connected to, for
the point, what capital of the Bahamas?

ANSWER: Nassau

(24) This city, home to Del Rosario University, is home to a historic quarter known as La
Candelaria. This former capital of the viceroyalty of New Granada is the world's highest
capital lying north of the equator. One museum in this city contains the world's largest
collection of gold artifacts, and this city is served by El Dorado Airport. For the point, name
this capital of Colombia.

ANSWER: Bogotá Distrito Capital (accept Bogotá D.C.)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                     Round 2


(25) This territory is home to the non-profit Queen Elizabeth II Botanic Park. This
territory's endemic animal species include the Blue iguana. This territory was originally
named Las Tortugas, and geologically, this territory is an extension of the Sierra Maestra
range of Cuba. Sharing its name with a species of crocodilian, for the point, what is this
British dependency in the Caribbean, known for being a tax haven?

ANSWER: Cayman Islands (accept Caymans)

(26) This sea's resorts include Hurghada and Sharm el-Sheik, and this sea contains the
world's northernmost shallow water coral reef in the port of Eilat. This sea is overlooked by
the planned kilometer-high Kingdom Tower, and this sea's southern exit is called the Bab al-
Mandab Strait, the site of a proposed bridge between Yemen and Djibouti. For the point,
name this sea that borders on Saudi Arabia and Sudan, named for a color.

ANSWER: Red Sea

(27) A 1971 convention signed in Ramsar governs the conservation of these areas,
important examples of which include Keoladeo National Park and Okefenokee National
Wildlife Refuge. Bengal Tigers thrive in one of these areas called the Sundarbans, and
boglands are a type of these areas that accumulate peat. The Pantanal, translating as "big
quagmire," is an example of, for the point, what areas exemplified by the Everglades?

ANSWER: Wetlands (accept specific types of wetlands such as Swamps or Marshlands;
accept Ramsar Convention on Wetlands of International Importance Especially as
Waterfowl Habitat)

(28) This city contains an office building called "The Pavilion" that forms an urban area
with Barre. This shire town of Washington County on the Winooski River takes its name
from a major port in Occitania, France. A gold-domed capitol building overlooks this
smallest state capital of the U.S., which contains a statue of Ethan Allen. For the point, name
this capital of Vermont.

ANSWER: Montpelier

(29) A waterway in this country is situated on the Great Glen fault. The Shetland Islands
and Hebrides are archipelagos in this country, the flag of which displays St Andrew's Cross,
consisting of a white "X" shape on a blue background. For the point, name this constituent
country within the United Kingdom with its capital at Edinburgh.

ANSWER: Scotland (accept Alba; prompt on "United Kingdom," "Britain," or "Great
Britain"; do not accept or prompt on "England")
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                   Round 2


(30) It's not in the UK, but this city at the mouth of the Severn River is the seat of Anne
Arundel County. This city and Trenton are the only modern U.S. state capitals to also have
previously served as the capital of the United States. This city, the host of the penultimate
meeting of the Constitutional Convention in 1786, contains the United States Naval
Academy on Chesapeake Bay. For the point, name this capital of Maryland.

ANSWER: Annapolis



Extra Questions
(1)     Anna Hingley was the first woman to cross this region by horse, travelling from
Broome to Cairns, and this region is bounded by areas nicknamed "the bush." This region
hosted nuclear tests at Emu Field, and the Dingo Fence stretches across this region which is
home to Lake Eyre [["AIR"]]. Including Uluru, or Ayers Rock, for the point, what is this
region that consists of Australia's brutal desert interior?

ANSWER: The Outback (prompt on "Australia")

(2)     This city isn't Boston, but it contains Back Bay, home to the Girgaon Chowpatty
beach known for its Vinayaka Chaturthi festival where idols of Ganesh are immersed in the
Arabian Sea. This city's "Navi" counterpart administers the Elephanta Caves, and this city,
out of which the Marathi cinema is based, contains the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel. For the point,
name this largest city of India, known for its Bollywood Film Industry.

ANSWER: Mumbai (accept Bombay)
