2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                         Octofinal



(MS) Geography Bee Octofinal
Regulation Tossups
(1)    This language family is distantly related to Yurok and Wiyot, spoken on
California's Pacific Coast. Georgian Bay and Thunder Bay are suspected locations of the
origin of this language family, whose members include Blackfoot, Cheyenne, and
Ojibwe. (+) Most speakers of this language family sided with the French against the
Iroquois in the Seven Years' War. Extinct languages, such as Mohican and Powhatan (*)
belong to, for the points, what language family that stretches over eastern Canada?

ANSWER: Algonquian Languages (accept Algonkian Languages; accept Plans Algonquian;
accept Central Algonquian; accept Eastern Algonquian; accept Proto-Algonquian; prompt
on "Algic Languages")

(2)     This river's delta, near the town of Tiksi, is where Captain De Long was stranded
on the Jeanette Expedition. This river's watershed includes the Tukulan sand dunes
along with namesake pillars that rise to heights over one thousand feet, a short ferry
ride from (+) Yakutsk. The Aldan is a right-hand tributary of this river, the source of
which lies in the Baikal Mountains. (*) For the points, name this river in Russia from which
Lenin may have taken his alias.

ANSWER: Lena River (accept Lena Pillars)

(3)     The former flag of this city was derided for its use of a rainbow line that many
likened to the Centrum logo. This city's LaVell Edwards Stadium is annually
transformed into the "stadium of fire" for the America's Freedom Festival. This city,
home to Cosmo the Cougar, (+) lies on a namesake river that rises in the Uintah
Mountains and flows through the Jordanelle Reservoir. Orem is a suburb (*) of, for the
points, what city in Utah that is home to Brigham Young University?

ANSWER: Provo

(4)     This mountain, bound by Saleh Bay and Mojo Island, forms the Sangaar
Peninsula. The slopes of this mountain contain the ruins of a namesake culture dubbed
"the Pompeii of the East" and which spoke the westernmost Papuan language. This
volcano on Sumbawa (+) Island was formerly the world's second-highest island peak,
but its height was reduced to 9,350 feet after the Holocene's largest eruption. Causing
the "year without a summer" in 1816, (*) for the points, what is this stratovolcano in
Indonesia?

ANSWER: Mount Tambora (or Mount Tomboro)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                          Octofinal


(5)     One of these features, named Skjaldbreiður [[SKYALD-breh-thoor]], produced
the Plains of Thingvellir, a site where Iceland's parliament once assembled. Maat Mons
is the highest example of these features on Venus, and Mars's Olympus Mons (+) is
another example of these features. The world's most voluminous mountain, Mauna
Loa, is an example of these features. Typically gradual and large and producing low
viscosity (*) lava, for the points, what are these volcanoes named for defensive weapons they
resemble?

ANSWER: Shield Volcanoes (prompt on "Volcanoes")

(6)     This city's namesake oblast sports a flag displaying a black tiger holding a sable
in its mouth. A namesake aviation plant was founded in this city in 1932, and its
corporate descendant, also named for this city, produces the Sukhoi Su-30. (+) This
city, which received many expellees from the 1825 Decembrist Revolt, was founded to
collect fur taxes from the Buryats. Lying on the Angara River, (*) for the points, what is
this Siberian city?

ANSWER: Irkutsk (accept Irkutsk Oblast; accept Irkutsk Aviation Plant; prompt on "Irkut
Corporation")

(7)     This body of water's Canaport Facility was the first place in the Western
Hemisphere that received supertankers. West Quoddy Head extends into this bay,
home to the island of Grand Manan. The Hopewell Rocks are submerged every day by
this bay, and the (+) Reversing Falls empties into this bay after originating from the
Saint John River. Located between Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, (*) for the points,
what is this Bay with the world's most extreme tides?

ANSWER: Bay of Fundy

(8)     This state's flag displays a white triangle in a blue upper-left corner, as well as
red, white, and blue stripes inspired by the slave-driven Revolt of the Tailors. This
state's São Marcelo Fort protects the Bay of All Saints along with the Barra Lighthouse,
and an African-inspired (+) martial art form called Capoeira is practiced in this state
north of Minas Gerais [[geh-RAH-eess]]. With its capital at Salvador, (*) for the points,
what is this Brazilian state, the name of which translates to "bay"?

ANSWER: Bahia

(9)     This island, home to the Karluk River, contains Fort Abercrombie, noted for its
World War Two fortifications that never saw combat. After Pitbull was "exiled" to
perform at a Walmart on this island, he performed on stage with Alutiiq [[ah-LOO-
teek]] dancers. (+) This island, known for its large species of brown bear and its native
King Crab population, is separated by the Sheilkof Strait from Katmai National (*) Park.
For the points, name this largest island in Alaska.

ANSWER: Kodiak Island (or Qikertaq)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                          Octofinal


(10) This region's ports include Saint-Malo and Lorient, and the Romance Gallo
language is spoken in this region's east. The Ploumanac'h [[PLOO-mah-nahk]]
Lighthouse is located on this peninsula's Pink Granite Coast, and the Loire (+) River
empties into the Atlantic Ocean from this peninsula. Brest, Nantes, and Rennes are
cities (*) located in, for the points, what peninsula, the westernmost region of mainland
France?

ANSWER: Brittany (accept Bretagne; accept Breizh; accept Bertaèyn)

(11) This agency administers herd management areas that contain groups of wild
mustangs and donkeys. Although this agency's headquarters were moved to Grand
Junction, Colorado in 2020, Deb Haaland announced they would be moved back to (+)
Washington D.C. in 2021. 99 percent of this agency's holdings are located within 11
western states and Alaska. This agency administers wilderness areas and national
monuments. (*) The largest holder of federal territory within the Department of the Interior,
for the points, what is this government bureau?

ANSWER: Bureau of Land Management (or BLM)

(12) This city is overlooked by Kgale Hill, often called the "Sleeping Giant," and this
city's namesake dam is located along a road that connects it to Lobatse and creates a
reservoir along the Notwane River. This city, which uses the Pula as its currency,
replaced (+) Mafikeng as the capital of Bechuanaland Protectorate in 1965 and is the
headquarters of the Southern African Development Community. Lying north of the
South (*) African border is, for the points, what capital of Botswana?

ANSWER: Gaborone (accept Gaborone Dam)

(13) This town's ski resort has its apex at Kachina Peak. A language spoken in this
town is part of the Tiwa family, and speakers of that language regard the return of Blue
Lake in the Carson National Forest as an important event in their history. This town,
home to the (+) Harwood Museum of Art, shares its name with an ancient pueblo
located just one mile to its north. The Sangre de Cristo (*) Mountains bound, for the
points, what town in New Mexico?

ANSWER: Taos (accept Taos County; accept Taos Pueblo)

(14) This city, famed for its Tri Brata rock formation in Avacha Bay, includes suburbs
like the closed town of Vilyuchinsk, known for its construction of nuclear submarines.
This city's name translates to "the city of Peter and (+) Paul," and it is the largest city
on the Eurasian mainland in the UTC +12 Time Zone. Located in the backdrop of the
Koryaksky Volcano, (*) for the points, what is this largest city of Kamchatka?

ANSWER: Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                         Octofinal


(15) This city is home to the largest Cambodian community on the U.S. East coast,
and this city's RRRecords [["Triple-R-Records"]] helped popularize "noise music" in
the 1980s. This city at the end of the Concord River is home to Pawtucket Falls along
the Merrimack (+) River and its state's second-largest university campus after
Amherst. Located near the New Hampshire border and pioneering the American
Industrial (*) Revolution with its mills, for the points, what is this Massachusetts city?

ANSWER: Lowell

(16) This region, formerly its own kingdom that stretched from Tabuk to Jizan, is
home to the Hira Cave where the Angel Gabriel supposedly appeared in the year 609
AD. This region's Abraj Al Bait [[bah-EET]] is the world's tallest clock tower, and an
Ottoman-constructed (+) railroad named for this region travelled from Damascus to
Medina. Home to the holiest Islamic (*) city, for the points, what is this Saudi Arabian
region along the Red Sea which includes Mecca?

ANSWER: Hejaz (accept Al-Ḥijāz; accept Hejaz Railway; prompt on "Saudi Arabia" or
"Arabia" until mentioned)

(17) This island's highest peak is Mount Ishizuchi, and its name refers to its regions,
Awa, Tosa, Sanuki, and Iyo. Today, Kochi Prefecture occupies the southern part of this
island, whose Ehime [[eh-HEE-meh]] Prefecture contains its largest city Matsuyama.
(+) Separated from the Chūgoku region by the Seto Inland Sea, this island is connected
via three bridges to Honshu. Northeast of Kyushu (*) with a name translating to "four
provinces," for the points, what is this second-smallest main island of Japan?

ANSWER: Shikoku

(18) This region's Hinglaj Mata mandir is the largest Hindu pilgrimage center of its
country. It's not Indian, but the Dravidian Brahui language is spoken in this region
where the Makran Coast contains the port Gwadar, set to be an integral part of China's
One Belt One Road (+) initiative. This region's capital is located at the southern end of
the Bolan Pass, and this region lies west of Sindh [[SIND]]. With its capital at Quetta, (*)
for the points, what is this region of southwestern Pakistan?

ANSWER: Balochistan (accept Baluchistan; prompt on "Pakistan" before mentioned)

(19) One of the three major tributaries of this river has its source near Mount
Tenakourou and flows through Bui National Park, which protects the rare black-and-
white colobus monkey. The steel arch Adomi Bridge crosses this river, which takes its
name from the Portuguese (+) word for "twist." The Akosombo Dam on this river
creates a namesake reservoir that is the largest in the world. The source of Red, White,
and Black (*) tributaries, for the points, what is this river that formerly gave its name to
Burkina Faso?

ANSWER: Volta River (accept Lake Volta Reservoir)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                         Octofinal


(20) This route runs along a series of volcanic plugs known as the "Nine Sisters,"
which includes Bishop Peak, Morro Rock, and Chumash Peak. This route, partly
constructed using laborers from Folsom Prison, connects to the 17-Mile Drive at
Pebble (+) Beach, and its "Big Sur Section" includes the Bixby Bridge. Ending in
Mendocino County and functioning as the main gateway to Malibu (*) is, for the points,
what highway that runs along California's western shore?

ANSWER: California State Route 1 (accept Route 1 alone only after "California" is
mentioned; accept Pacific Coast Highway or PCH; accept Cabrillo Highway; prompt on
"Coast Highway" or "Shoreline Highway")

(21) This symbol is used by the micronation Westarctica, which claims Marie Byrd
Land. This vexillological symbol, first used in the Dannebrog, is associated with Philip
the Apostle and is used by the Shetland Islands. (+) Greenland notably rejects this
symbol, which was historically used to represent the Kalmar Union. Appearing on the
flags of Iceland, Norway, (*) and Sweden, for the points, what is this symbol?

ANSWER: Nordic Cross (prompt on partial answers; accept Scandinavian Cross; accept
Cross of Philip the Apostle before mentioned)

(22) This river, that passes by the border city of Lào Cai, has its source near Dali in
the Yunnan Province. This river is also known as the Hồng Hà, or "mother river," and
this river's delta region is the proposed origin site of the Austroasiatic Languages, (+)
as well as water puppetry. This river empties south of the port of Haiphong into the
Gulf of Tonkin. Flowing through Hanoi, (*) for the points, what is this river which is named
for the color of its silty water?

ANSWER: Red River (accept Hồng Hà or Hong River before mentioned; accept Sông Cái;
accept Yuan River)

(23) This city’s Ala Too Square is the central part of the city and contains a statue of
Manas, whose epic is a cornerstone to its nation's identity. This city's White House
presidential office building was the site of 2005’s Tulip Revolution (+) that deposed
President Askar Akayev. This city is located in the Chuy River Valley in the Tien Shan
mountain (*) range. For the points, name this most-populous city and capital of Kyrgyzstan.

ANSWER: Bishkek (or Pishpek; or Frunze)

(24) This city, that controls exclaves in the municipalities of Triesenberg and
Schaan, is home to the Cathedral of St. Florin, which became its own archdiocese in
1997 separate from Chur. Grauspitz is visible from this city, whose royals did not step
foot in it for over a century (+) after it was granted to them in 1719. This sole national
capital on the Rhine River is overlooked by the residence of Prince Hans-Adam II. (*)
For the points, name this capital of Liechtenstein.

ANSWER: Vaduz
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                         Octofinal


(25) The north shore of Long Island was given this name in the 1900s due to the
affluence of towns like Oyster Bay, which inspired The Great Gatsby. Forts established
in a region of this name included Elmina and Osu castles. A resort of this name north of
the (+) New South Wales border contains a beach called Surfers Paradise and is home
to the Q1, Australia's tallest building. Formerly used to describe Ghana, (*) for the
points, what is this name that includes a precious metal?

ANSWER: Gold Coast (prompt on partial answers)

(26) This lake, drained by the Ruzizi River, has potential to experience limnic
eruptions due to its high carbon dioxide content. This lake's largest island is Idjwi
[[EEJ-wee]], while its ports include Goma and Bukavu. This lake on the Albertine (+)
Rift drains into Lake Tanganyika. Located between the Democratic Republic of the
Congo and Rwanda, (*) for the points, what is this African Great Lake?

ANSWER: Lake Kivu

(27) After unloading cotton in this valley's Playa Bagdad, camels would return over
100 miles to Camp Verde. SpaceX's Boca Chica Launch Site is located in this valley,
known for its colonia slums, where the last Civil War battle at Palmito Ranch occurred.
The (+) southern part of this valley is part of the state of Tamaulipas, and its major
cities include McAllen, Matamoros, and Brownsville. Split between (*) Texas and Mexico,
for the points, what is this valley?

ANSWER: Lower Rio Grande Valley (prompt on "The Valley")

(28) This city at the center of Africa's largest magnetic anomaly is home to the
Boganda National Museum, which features a special exhibit on pygmy peoples. This
city's largest suburb is Bimbo, and this city was captured by Séléka forces in 2013. (+)
Jean-Bedel Bokassa crowned himself emperor in this city on the north bank of the
Ubangi (*) River. For the points, name this capital of the Central African Republic.

ANSWER: Bangui (or Bangî)

(29) These mountains include Khüiten [[KOO-eh-teng]] Peak and are the only
known place where all three known species of hominids once lived together, in and
around its Denisova Cave. Belukha is the highest peak in this range's "Golden
Mountains," (+) a major sanctuary for Snow Leopards. These mountains form
Dzungaria's northeastern boundary and contain the sources of the Ob and Irtysh
rivers. At the junction of Russia, Mongolia, (*) China, and Kazakhstan, for the points, what
are these mountains?

ANSWER: Altai Mountains (or Altay Mountains)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                        Octofinal


(30) This archipelago's easternmost island is Amorgos, and it contains Europe's
oldest synagogue on the island of Delos, the birthplace of Artemis and Apollo. Tourists
to this archipelago flock to the town Oia [[EE-ah]] to capture pictures of the sunset
around the caldera of the (+) volcano that caused the Minoan eruption. Other islands
in this archipelago include Naxos and Syros. Containing Santorini and Mykonos (*) in
the Aegean Sea is, for the points, what Greek archipelago?

ANSWER: Cyclades



Extra Questions
(1)     This city's central Plaza Murillo contains the "Burnt Palace," officially known as
the Palace of Government, and the Plurinational Legislative Assembly. This city is
overlooked by Mount Illimani and is connected by cable car to El Alto, with which it
forms the world's (+) highest major urban area. This city is in a valley of the Andean
Altiplano and is known as Chuqi Yapu in Aymara. A dual (*) capital with Sucre, for the
points, what is this legislative capital of Bolivia?

ANSWER: La Paz (or Nuestra Señora de La Paz; accept Chuqi Yapu until mentioned)

(2)     One building in this city possesses an undulating and apparently rough-hewn
stone facade, lending it the nickname, the "stone quarry." One park in this city contains
a famous staircase with a large, mosaic salamander nicknamed "El Drac" in the center.
This city is home to a (+) many-spired, incomplete basilica, expected to be finished in
2026. Buildings designed by Antoni Gaudí are found in this city which is home to Park
Güell and Sagrada (*) Família, For the points, name this capital of Catalonia.

ANSWER: Barcelona

(3)     The General McPherson formerly shuttled people to this island which is the site
of the oldest operating lighthouse on the West Coast of the United States. Named after
a Spanish word for "pelican," notable residents of this island included Mickey Cohen
and Robert Stroud, the (+) "Birdman of [this island]." Occupied by the American Indian
Movement in 1969, this island is accessible from Fisherman's (*) Wharf. For the points,
name this former prison island in San Francisco Bay.

ANSWER: Alcatraz Island (accept Alcatraz Federal Penitentiary; accept Birdman of
Alcatraz; accept Alcatraz Island Lighthouse)
