2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                        Round 3



(MS) Geography Bee Round 3
Regulation Tossups
(1)    On this body of water lies the town of Wadi Halfa, and the Toksha Lakes were
created by diverting water from this body via a canal named for Anwar Sadat. The Abu
Simbel Temples were relocated from this lake to prevent their flooding due to the
construction of the Aswan High Dam. For the point, name this reservoir in Southern Egypt.

ANSWER: Lake Nasser (accept Lake Nubia)

(2)     One of these structures, near the ancient city of Tarraco, is called the Pont del
Diable, or "Devil's Bridge." Another of these structures is displayed on the coat of arms of
Segovia. The Porta Maggiore [[mah-ZHOR-eh]] Gate was created from one of these
structures called Claudia, one of the four "great ones" that supplied a city along with Aqua
Marcia, Anio Vetus, and Anio Novus. The Pont du Gard exemplifies, for the point, what
structures used to carry water?

ANSWER: Roman Aqueducts

(3)    This river's upper section is called the Jinsha, which flows through Tiger Leaping
Gorge in Yunnan. This river receives Poyang Lake near the border of Anhui and Jiangxi
[[JAHNG-SHEE]] provinces and flows past the cities of of Wuhu and Wuhan. This river hosts
a possibly extinct species of dolphin called the baiji, the survival of which was further
threatened by the Three Gorges Dam. For the point, name this longest river of China.

ANSWER: Yangtze River (or Cháng Jiāng)

(4)      This city, the largest before Detroit to file for bankruptcy in the US, contains the Glen
Helen Amphitheate, the largest outdoor music venue in the US. This "Gate City" is
nicknamed such due to its location south of the Cajon [[kah-HOHN]] Pass as the seat of the
U.S.'s largest county. The original McDonald's restaurant opened on Route 66 in this city,
southeast of the San Gabriel Mountains, which forms the Inland Empire's population hub
with Riverside. For the point, name this California city.

ANSWER: San Bernadino

(5)     This lake's outflow is regulated by the Degania Dam, and Redbelly tilapia from this
lake are served as "St. Peter's fish." This lake's port of Tiberias holds the Tomb of
Maimonides [[my-MOH-nee-dess]], and this lake, that receives waters from Mount Hermon,
is the world's second lowest. The western border of the Golan Heights swoops around this
lake, drained by the Jordan River into the Dead Sea. For the point, name this "sea,"
associated with Jesus, in Northern Israel.

ANSWER: Sea of Galilee (accept Lake Tiberias before mentioned; accept Kinnereth)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                      Round 3


(6)     This mountain, that inspired C.T.R. Wilson to invent the cloud chamber, was known
in Pictish as Nebesta, and climbers often ascend this mountain via the Tower Ridge after
departing from Fort William. This mountain is the tallest of the Grampians and the Munros,
and the closest higher peak to this mountain is in Norway. For the point, name this highest
mountain of Scotland and the United Kingdom.

ANSWER: Ben Nevis

(7)     This city, surrounded by the Ahal Region, was rebuilt as the "White City," after a
devastating 1948 earthquake, under the direction of Saparmurat Niyazov. This city, in the
backdrop of the Kopet Dag, was home to the first Baha'i house of worship in the world and
also contains the Oguzhan Presidential Palace. This city receives water from the Amu Darya
via the Karakum Canal and is north of the Iranian border. For the point, name this capital of
Turkmenistan.

ANSWER: Ashgabat (accept Poltoratsk)

(8)     This city's Rottnest Island, along with Albany's Bald Island, is one of the two habitats
of the quokka. National parks near this city include John Forrest and Walyunga, which is in
the Darling Range. Suburbs of this city include Mandurah and Fremantle, but it is still the
world's most isolated urban area of over a million inhabitants. This city on the Swan River
provides the only outside link to Christmas Island. For the point, name this capital of West
Australia.

ANSWER: Perth (or Boorloo)

(9)     This region's namesake archipelago includes Isola del Giglio, the site of the Costa
Concordia Cruise disaster, along with the island of Elba between the Ligurian and
Tyrrhenian Seas. The Etruscans formerly inhabited this region, home to the Arno River, and
this region was once ruled by the Medici family. For the point, name this region of Italy
which is home to Florence.

ANSWER: Tuscany (or Toscana; prompt on "Tuscan Archipelago"; prompt on "Italy" before
mentioned)

(10) This city, home to Walker Air Force Base, was the takeoff site of the Red Bull Stratos
project and Felix Baumgartner's world's-highest skydive. This city, located on the western
edge of the Llano [[YAH-noh]] Estacado, is the largest city on the Pecos River and a gateway
to Carlsbad Caverns National Park. Home to the International UFO Museum and Research
Center, for the point, what southeastern New Mexico city was the site of an alleged 1947
extraterrestrial encounter?

ANSWER: Roswell
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                     Round 3


(11) This mountain range formerly housed the "closed town" of Snezhinsk used for
nuclear development and located near the site of a 2013 meteorite impact in Chelyabinsk
Oblast. Yekaterinburg is the largest city in this mountain range which forms the
northernmost part of a continental boundary stretching to the Caucasus Mountains and
Istanbul. For the point, name this mountain range that separates European Russia from
Siberia.

ANSWER: Ural Mountains (or Urals)

(12) This island, that administers the atolls of Layson and Kure, has its highest peak at
Ka'ala. This island, the site of the royal Iolani Palace, has attractions such as Waikiki Beach
and Pearl Harbor that are located on the southern coast of this island. Found between
Molokai and Kauai, for the point, what is this most populous island of Hawaii where a
majority of residents live near Honolulu?

ANSWER: Oahu (prompt on "The Gathering Place")

(13) This region, home to the cities of Qiqihar and Jixi [[JEE-SHEE]], is largely
synonymous with Dongbei, and this region's name was first used by the Japanese in
reference to the people who lived there. This region's northern boundary is formed by the
Heilongjiang, or Amur River, and its largest cities include Shenyang and Harbin, which hosts
a famous ice festival. For the point, name this region of northeastern China.

ANSWER: Manchuria (accept Dongbei until mentioned; accept Heilongjiang before "Jixi"
is mentioned; prompt on "Northeast China" and similar answers)

(14) This peninsula's Lake Bardawil is guarded from the Mediterranean by a sandbar,
and this peninsula is bounded by the Great Bitter Lake. This peninsula contains the world's
oldest operating library at Saint Catherine's Monastery. This peninsula, home to the resort
of Sharm el-Sheikh, is located between the Gulf of Aqaba and the Gulf of Suez. For the point,
name this peninsula where Moses received the Ten Commandments on a namesake mount.

ANSWER: Sinai Peninsula (accept Mount Sinai)

(15) Scuba diving is banned in this country's Jellyfish Lake, which teems with millions of
golden jellyfish with weak stingers. This country, in free association with the United States,
is located west of the Philippines and north of Indonesia. This country's capital became
Ngerulmud [[neh-RUHL-mood]] in 2006, consisting of a single foreign-funded capitol
building. For the point, name this archipelagic country whose largest island is Koror.

ANSWER: Republic of Palau (or Beluu er a Belau)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                   Round 3


(16) This country's highest point, Mount Scenery, is located on an island which is home
to the world's shortest commercial airport runway at Zion's Hill and is called Saba. This
country, that administers the BES Islands as well as islands where the Portuguese-based
creole Papiamento is spoken, is home to one of the oldest synagogues of the Americas at
Willemstad, the capital of Curacao. For the point, name this European country.

ANSWER: Kingdom of the Netherlands (or Koninkrijk der Nederlanden; accept Holland)

(17) It's not in the Pacific, but this country's Aldabra Atoll is famed for its endemic Giant
Tortoise species. Five brightly colored triangles diverge from the bottom left corner on the
flag of this country, the most populous island of which is Mahé [[mah-HEH]]. This country,
with Africa's highest GDP per Capita and lowest population, is located on the Somali Sea's
eastern edge. For the point, name this archipelagic country governed from Victoria.

ANSWER: Republic of Seychelles

(18) This event was originally held at Baker Beach, and its cancellation in 2020 led
London Breed to condemn a group who had gathered on San Francisco's Ocean Beach to
celebrate it. Attendees of the unofficial 2021 "Renegade" iteration of this event created a
drone display of its namesake. This event occurs before every Labor Day weekend in the
Black Rock Desert, 100 miles north of Reno. For the point, name this Nevada festival that
involves the destruction of a wooden effigy.

ANSWER: Burning Man Festival

(19) The north region of this landmass included the Caledonian Mountains. This
landmass was originally dominated by lycopod forests, although it later came to be
dominated by conifers. This landmass surrounded by the Panthalassa Ocean and began to
split during the late Mesozoic Era, forming the Tethys Ocean between Gondwanaland and
Laurasia. For the point, name this ancient supercontinent present during the Triassic
Period.

ANSWER: Pangaea [[pan-JEE-ah]] (be lenient on pronunciation)

(20) This region's namesake reef system includes the Cayos Cochinos in the Bay Islands
as well as the Great Blue Hole popularized by Jacques Cousteau. This region includes the
Isthmus of Tehuantepec, which derives its name from "jaguar mountain," and ruins in this
region include Monte Albán, used by the Zapotecs. For the point, name this historic region of
Mexico and Central America, the former home of the Aztec civilization.

ANSWER: Mesoamerica (accept Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System; do not accept or
prompt on specific countries such as "Honduras" or "Mexico")
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                      Round 3


(21) In this country's Ebon Atoll, a Salvadorian castaway working in Chiapas re-emerged
after spending a year floating west across 6,700 miles of open ocean. This country, divided
between the Ralik and Ratak Chains, contains Reagan Test Site on Kwajalien, run by the
United States, which did nuclear testing in this country until 1958. For the point, name this
country which is home to Majuro.

ANSWER: Republic of the Marshall Islands (accept RMI)

(22) One city of this name contains the NFL's largest stadium, AT&T Stadium, as well as
the original Six Flags theme park. Another city of this name contains Crystal City, a
neighborhood set to house Amazon's HQ2 and which has hosted the IAC High School
National Championships. For the point, what name is borne by a Texas city in the Dallas-
Fort Worth metro area and a Virginia city north of Alexandria, home to the Pentagon?

ANSWER: Arlington

(23) This bay's Cayo Piedra was allegedly the site of a private island equipped with a
yacht gifted by Leonid Brezhnev, and this bay's Playa Girón wsa the landing site of an
invasion by Brigade 2506, a CIA-trained military group led by Pepe San Román. This bay, to
the east of the Zapata Peninsula, is part of Matanzas Province and is also known as the Bahía
de los Cochinos. For the point, name this Cuban bay, the site of a failed 1961 invasion.

ANSWER: Bay of Pigs (accept Bahía de los Cochinos before mentioned; accept Bay of Pigs
Invasion)

(24) This dependency's legislature is referred to as the Tynwald and is a bicameral
legislature consisting of the Legislative Council and the House of Keys. The main symbol on
this dependency’s flag is a triskelion of three legs with golden spurs, an ancient Celtic motif.
For the point, name this self-governing British Crown dependency, an island whose capital
is Douglas and which is entwined by the Dhoo and Glass Rivers.

ANSWER: Isle of Man (or Mannin; or Ellan Vannin)

(25) This country's Failaka Island was named Icarus by Alexander the Great and is the
site of a Huwala population. This country's "Silk City" project included the construction of
the Sheikh Jaber Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah Causeway, the longest bridge in the Middle East. This
country's dinar is the world's most-highly valued currency, and this country was the site of
history's largest oil spill in 1991. For the point, name this country between Iraq and Saudi
Arabia.

ANSWER: State of Kuwait (accept Dawlat al Kuwayt)
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                       Round 3


(26) "Hills" that bear this plant's name include a region which is home to the highest
point of Saskatchewan, and Montezuma's "Bald" version of this plant is the national tree of
Mexico. A version of this tree is known as macrocarpa in New Zealand, while a "lone"
example on Pebble Beach is an iconic symbol of the Monterey Peninsula. For the point,
name this type of tree, not to be confused with an island that has its capital at Nicosia [[nik-
oh-SEE-ah]].

ANSWER: Cypress Trees (accept Cypress Hills; accept Lone Cypress; prompt on "Tree")

(27) One of these facilities on Merritt Island contains the world's tallest one-story
building, the tallest in the US outside an urban area, called the Vehicle Assembly Building.
One of these facilities in Kourou accounts for a significant portion of French Guiana's
economy, and another one of these facilities called Baikonur in Kazakhstan is leased to
Russia and is called a Cosmodrome. For the point, name these facilities from which
astronauts depart on missions.

ANSWER: Spaceport (accept clear knowledge equivalents)

(28) This country, home to the Sandy Lane Resort where Jacqueline Kennedy vacationed,
also contains the George Washington House, the only place Washington visited outside the
US. This country's locals are known as Bajans [[BAY-juns]] and include Rhianna. This
country, that displays a trident on its flag, is the easternmost of the Caribbean. For the point,
name this country which is governed from Bridgetown.

ANSWER: Barbados

(29) This river's Qal'at Ja'bar fortress was formerly an exclave that housed the tomb of
Tomb of Suleyman Shah, and this river is formed from the Kara Su and Murat Su north of
the Keban Dam. This river roughly forms Rojava's southwestern border, and Lake Assad
was formed from a dam on this river that flows past Raqqah in Syria. For the point, name
this river that bounds western Mesopotamia, which it defines with the Tigris River.

ANSWER: Euphrates

(30) This city is the largest non-terminus stop on Amtrak's Empire Builder, and Target is
headquartered in this city which is known for its large Somali community. The I-35 West
Bridge, that carried visitors over Saint Anthony Falls of the Mississippi, collapsed in this city
in 2007, and this city's Hennepin County Government Center was the site of the Derek
Chauvin trial. A "Twin City" with St. Paul, for the point, what is this largest city in
Minnesota?

ANSWER: Minneapolis (do not accept or prompt on "St. Paul")
2022 Middle School National Geography Bee                                                   Round 3


Extra Questions
(1)    A proposed tunnel to connect this polity's two sections would have its eastern end
near Hebron, and Ramallah is the de facto capital of this polity that controls the town of
Bethlehem. This polity was officially established by Yasser Arafat, and Egypt and Jordan
formerly occupied the territory of this polity whose smaller portion is controlled by Hamas.
For the point, name this claimed state that consists of Gaza and the West Bank, much of
which is occupied by Israel.

ANSWER: State of Palestine (or Dawlat Filasṭīn)

(2)     This lake is overlooked by the Urquhart Castle in the city of Drumnadrochit. This
lake is fed by the River Oich in the Great Glen valley, and David Munro water-skied the
length of this lake from Lochend to Fort Augustus in 1974. This lake is the largest by volume
in the Caledonian Canal, which connects Fort William to Inverness and also includes Loch
Lomond. For the point, name this Scottish lake which allegedly houses a mythical monster.

ANSWER: Loch Ness (accept Loch Ness Monster)
