  2018 Intl. Geography Bee US Middle School & Elementary National Championships
                                  Quarterfinals


1. The Riau Archipelago is located east of this island. The 2004 Boxing Day Tsunami struck this island’s city of Banda
Aceh, which is the center of a separatist region that strictly enforces sharia. This island contains the cities of Medan and
Palembang, and this island is the westernmost of the Greater Sunda Islands. This island is separated from the Malay
Peninsula by the Strait of Malacca. For the point, name this westernmost major Indonesian island.
ANSWER: ​Sumatra

2. This country’s Lika region was a target of Operation Storm in 1995. A city in this country not on an island, yet
accessible only by ferry, was formerly the capital of the Republic of Ragusa. This country’s four traditional regions
include Slavonia and Istria. This country contains the towns of Dubrovnik and Split, and its southern region of Dalmatia,
which borders Montenegro, is the namesake of a type of dog. This country separated from Yugoslavia in 1992 and its
citizens are largely distinguished from Serbs by religion. For the point, name this Balkan country with its capital at
Zagreb.
ANSWER: ​Croatia

3. This island is separated from the Melville Peninsula by the Foxe Basin, and both this island and this island’s Frobisher
Bay are named for 16th century English navigators. This island contains the territorial capital of Iqaluit, and is separated
from Greenland by the Davis Strait. This island contains most of the population of Nunavut. For the point, name this
largest island in Canada.
ANSWER: ​Baffin​ Island

4. This country’s Cuando Cubango province is named for two of its longest rivers, both of which terminate in its Bie [​pr.
bee-yay​] plateau, which contains its city of Huambo. This country owns the oil-rich exclave of Cabinda, and this
country’s coastal city of Benguela was a major Portuguese colonial slave port. For the point, name this West African
country with its capital at Luanda.
ANSWER: ​Angola

5. This state’s cities of Williston and Watford City have undergone rapid growth fueled by the oil industry, and its Bakken
Shale is an important oil extraction region. This state contains the US’s highest percentage of Norwegian speakers, and its
Standing Rock Reservation was the site of massive protests over a pipeline in 2016. This state’s largest city is Fargo. For
the point, name this Great Plains state whose capital is Bismarck.
ANSWER: ​North Dakota
                                                                                              International Geography Bee
                                                                                                     Round 5 - Page 2 of 6
6. This city is the location of the largest pyramid on American soil, now owned by Bass Pro Shops. A man organizing a
sanitation workers’ strike in this city was assassinated at its Lorraine Motel, and Elvis Presley died at his mansion in this
city, Graceland. This city is named for a capital of ancient Egypt and is the largest city in Western Tennessee. For the
point, name this city where Martin Luther King, Jr. was assassinated.
ANSWER: ​Memphis

7. This city’s Parian district is often referred to as the world’s first Chinatown. This city contains Malacanang Palace and
Corregidor Island, where Douglas MacArthur stayed with his troops during a Japanese siege of this city. This city is
bordered to the north by Quezon City, and it is the largest on the island of Luzon. For the point, name this capital city of
the Philippines.
ANSWER: ​Manila

8. This river flows past the Makran Ranges, and the Sutlej, Jhelum, and Ravi are three of the five tributaries that name a
region along this river, Punjab. The Hydaspes River is a tributary of this larger river whose basin was invaded in the 320’s
BC. The archaeological sites of Mohenjo-Daro and Harappa are found in this river’s valley, and this river is the largest in
a nation with its capital at Islamabad. For the point, name this longest river in Pakistan, the namesake of an ancient
civilization.
ANSWER: ​Indus​ River

9. This island’s Morant Bay Rebellion was an early attempt to end slavery in it, and this island country’s capital contains
the slum of Tivoli Gardens. This island’s Blue Mountains are an important bauxite mining region, and this island’s
northern coast contain its cities of Ocho Rios and Montego Bay. This island is the home of the musical genres of ska and
reggae. For the point, name this island country with its capital at Kingston.
ANSWER: ​Jamaica

10. This state’s Bombay Hook National Wildlife Refuge is a pivotal stop for waterfowl migration, and this state was a
Swedish and Dutch colony before its transfer to England. This state’s northern border is defined by a 12-mile circle drawn
around its town of New Castle, and it was the first state to ratify the Constitution. For the point, name this Mid-Atlantic
state on the Delmarva Peninsula with its capital at Dover.
ANSWER: ​Delaware

11. Cultural gatherings in this country include a literary festival at Hay-on-Wye and meetings of bards known as
eisteddfods (​pr. ICE-teth-fods​) This country’s town of Merthyr Tydfil was the location of an uprising of iron miners in
the 19th century, and a national park in this country, Brecon Beacons, is used to train the SAS special forces. This
country’s ports on St. George’s Channel include Port Talbot and Swansea, as well as its capital of Cardiff. For the point,
name this constituent country of the United Kingdom located west of England.
ANSWER: ​Wales​ (prompt on ​United Kingdom​)

12. The Nez Perce Chief Joseph was captured in what is now this state’s Bear Paw Mountains. This state contains the Fort
Peck Indian Reservation as well as the city of Missoula, home to its flagship state university, and Butte, a former copper
mining hub. This state, named for the Spanish word for “Mountain”, contains the city of Billings. For the point, name this
Western US state with its capital at Helena.
ANSWER: ​Montana
                                                                                               International Geography Bee
                                                                                                      Round 5 - Page 3 of 6
13. One tower in this city is designed to resemble the sail of a ship, and one chain of artificial islands off the coast of this
city is shaped to resemble a map of the world. Both this city’s largest mosque and its main road are named for its former
ruler, Sheikh Zayed. A record held by a building in this city is soon to be surpassed by the Kingdom Tower in Jiddah.
That building is the Burj Khalifa. Despite being its country’s largest, this city is only the capital of its emirate rather than
its nation. That capital is Abu Dhabi. For the point, name this city in the United Arab Emirates famous for its extravagant
displays of wealth.
ANSWER: ​Dubai

14. This feature names both the northernmost provinces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the southernmost
provinces of South Sudan. This feature runs through the Mitad del Mundo monument and the city of Quito in which it is
located. This feature is the namesake of a nation with its capital at Malabo as well as one located north of Peru. For the
point, name this feature that divides the Northern and Southern hemispheres.
ANSWER: ​Equator



15. This country’s southern Casamance region is seeking independence from it, and this country contains the port cities of
Goree and Saint-Louis. This country was home to the Wolof Confederacy, and it contains the Westernmost point on
mainland Africa at Cap Vert. This country’s namesake river forms its Northern border with Mauritania. For the point,
name this West African country with its capital at Dakar.
ANSWER: ​Senegal

16. This explorer made the last use of the ship ​Fram​, and on his most famous expedition, he was accompanied by Helmer
Hanssen and Oskar Wisting. On that expedition, he sent a telegram warning of his approach to a rival who used horses
and tractors rather than dogs to reach his goal. That rival was Robert Falcon Scott. This man was the first person to visit
both poles. For the point, name this Norwegian explorer, the first to reach the South Pole.
ANSWER: ​Amundsen

17. This country’s west coast contains the Nicoya and Osa Peninsulas, and its African population is largely concentrated
in its Caribbean Limon Province. This country has not had an army since a 1954 change in government, and this country
is often known as the “Switzerland of Central America” due to its relative peacefulness and affluence. For the point, name
this Central American country with its capital at San Jose.
ANSWER: ​Costa Rica

18. One massive gold mine in this country is located at a site that translates as “Turquoise Hill”. This country’s tradition
of throat singing is shared with its neighboring Tuvan people. This country has the world’s lowest population density, and
several of its capital’s neighborhoods are made up of traditional ​ger​ tents, often called yurts. For the point, name this
Central Asian country that contains most of the Gobi Desert and has its capital at Ulaanbaatar.
ANSWER: ​Mongolia

19. One structure in this city had its top replaced with a statue of St. Anthony and depicts the conquest of Dacia. This city
is the location of the Castell Sant’Angelo as well as a building whose ceiling was famously painted by Michelangelo. One
of this city’s most famous landmarks was the largest site where gladiatorial combat was held. Vatican City is an
independent nation located within this city, the location of the Colosseum. For the point, name this “eternal city”, the
capital of Italy and formerly of a namesake empire.
ANSWER: ​Rome
                                                                                            International Geography Bee
                                                                                                   Round 5 - Page 4 of 6
20. The inventor of the Cherokee syllabary names one national park containing these things, as well as a subtype of these
things. One very large example of these things, the General Grant, is located in Kings Canyon National Park. The General
Sherman is the largest one of these trees, which are the largest living things on Earth. For the point, Sequoia National Park
protects a large number of what gigantic Californian trees?
ANSWER: ​Redwood​s (accept ​Sequoia​s before name mentioned)

21. This city was the site of the Battle of Sihang Warehouse, and this city’s tallest building may have been inspired by a
Bai Juyi poem about sparkling pearls. This city, the home of the Oriental Pearl Tower, contains several former foreign
concessions that are now its Bund district. This city on the Huangpu River is divided into two portions: Pudong and Puxi.
For the point, name this most populous city in China.
ANSWER: ​Shanghai

22. This ecosystem occupies a large area of Brazil and parts of Argentina known as the Pantanal. One example of these
ecosystems was known as a hideout for escaped slaves in Virginia; that is the Great Dismal. Other American examples of
these ecosystems include the Okefenokee in Georgia. The most famous American example of these ecosystems is also
known as the “River of Grass” and abuts Lake Okeechobee. The Everglades in Florida are an example of, for the point,
what wet, low-lying ecosystems?
ANSWER: ​swamp​s (prompt on ​wetlands​, do not accept ​marshes​ or ​bogs​)

23. These structures may have developed from an earlier design called the mastaba. One type of these structures was
pioneered by the architect Imhotep and first built at Saqqara. These structures include ones built to honor Kings Khafre
and Menkaure, and the largest of these structures was built for King Khufu. For the point name these structures, several of
which are located at Giza, in which Egyptian pharaohs were often buried.
ANSWER: ​pyramid​s (prompt on “tombs”)

24. This state’s Indian Reservations include Bois Fort and White Earth. This state contains the Northwest Angle, a
surveying anomaly that led to a bend in its Northern border. This state’s Western border is set by the Red River of the
North, and the Lake of the Woods is located in this state. This state’s Mesabi Range is an iron mining hub, and this state’s
Lake Itasca is the source of the Misssissippi River. The Twin Cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis are the largest in, for the
point, what state in the Northern US?
ANSWER: ​Minnesota

25. This city contains the Plaza of Three Cultures, and the Tlatelolco Massacre occurred before a Summer Olympics held
in this city. This city lay along the shore of Lake Texcoco before it was drained. This city’s Chapultepec Castle was taken
by a force of US Marines in 1847. This city was built atop the former royal capital of Tenochtitlan. For the point, name
this capital of its namesake Latin American country located South of the United States.
ANSWER: ​Mexico​ City (accept ​Tenochtitlan​, ​Ciudad Mexico​)

26. In 1943 in Mexico, one of these landforms called Paricutin suddenly emerged from a farmer’s cornfield. Natural
disasters involving these landforms are classified on a scale whose categories include Peleean, Strombolian, and
Hawaiian. Examples of these landforms in Italy include Etna, and one of these landforms in Washington state, Mount
Saint Helens, destroyed much of its surrounding forest in 1980. Vesuvius is an example of, for the point, what landforms
that spew lava when they erupt?
ANSWER: ​volcanoes
                                                                                              International Geography Bee
                                                                                                     Round 5 - Page 5 of 6
27. The world’s largest system of these landforms is located on the border between one country’s Misiones Province and
another’s Parana State. Another of these landforms is named for an American explorer who flew over it in the aircraft ​El
Rio Caroni.​ One of these landforms is named for the Tupi word for “big water”, Iguazu. The tallest one of these landforms
is named for Jimmie Angel. For the point, name these landforms which often form when rivers drop suddenly in elevation.
ANSWER: ​waterfalls

28. This country’s city of Sfax is located on its Gulf of Gabes, and a produce vendor from this country’s city of Sidi
Bouzid set himself on fire, thus catalyzing Arab Spring protests throughout North Africa. The narrow stretch of the
Mediterranean between this country and Italy is a popular migration route, and on land this country only borders Algeria
and Libya. For the point, name this country with its capital at Tunis.
ANSWER: ​Tunisia

29. The town of Madawaska in this state contains the highest percentage of French speakers in the USA. This state
contains Mount Desert Island, and land in this state was fought over in the Aroostook War. This state’s city of Bangor was
named for a popular hymn, and this state contains Acadia National Park. This state’s West Quoddy Head is the continental
US’s easternmost point. This state is not Oregon, but its largest city is also named Portland. For the point, name this New
England state whose capital is Augusta.
ANSWER: ​Maine

30. One chain of islands in this body of water are split by the One and a Half Degree Channel. The island of Diego Garcia
in the Chagos Archipelago are part of this body of water’s namesake British territory. This ocean contains the island of
Socotra, and it is separated from its neighbors by the Bab al-Mandab and the Strait of Hormuz. The nations of the
Maldives and Sri Lanka are located in this ocean. For the point, name this ocean, which is not the Arctic, Atlantic, Pacific,
nor Southern.
ANSWER: ​Indian​ Ocean

Extra Tossups / Tiebreakers – ONLY READ IF NEEDED!

31. This country named one of its departments after Rutherford B. Hayes after Hayes settled a border dispute in its favor.
This country gained much of its Northern part in the Chaco War, and this country is the easternmost of two landlocked
nations on its continent. This country’s namesake river, a tributary of the Parana, runs along its border with Argentina and
through its capital of Asuncion. For the point, name this South American country.
ANSWER: ​Paraguay

32. This state is home to the US’s smallest National Park Service-administered site, the former home of Thaddeus
Koscziusko. The Molly Maguires were a secret labor society mostly active in this state, and this state’s city of Johnstown
was destroyed by a flood in 1889. This state’s city of Homestead was the site of a major steel strike, and this state’s
second largest city is located at the confluence of the Allegheny, Monongahela, and Ohio rivers. For the point, name this
state that contains the cities of Pittsburgh and Philadelphia.
ANSWER: ​Pennsylvania

33. This country’s northeast region of Isaan is a center of martial arts, and this country’s south contains its largest lake,
Songkhla. This country’s capital, located on the Chao Phraya River, is known in this country’s language as Krung Thep,
or “The City of Angels”. This country contains the cities of Chiang Mai and Chiang Rai and is currently ruled by King
Rama X. For the point, name this Southeast Asian country with its capital at Bangkok.
ANSWER: ​Thailand
                                                                                         International Geography Bee
                                                                                                Round 5 - Page 6 of 6


34. A portion of this city was known as the Reedy Creek Improvement District before its development, and one of this
city’s suburbs is the planned community of Celebration. One theme park in this city was attacked in the documentary
Blackfish​. A mass shooting occurred at a nightclub in this city in 2016 while different countries cultures, including
Morocco and Norway have been featured at this city’s EPCOT park. For the point, name this Florida city, which saw
accelerated development after the construction of Disney World.
ANSWER: ​Orlando

35. This modern-day country was once ruled by Queen Ranavalona, a member of its Merina ethnic group, which descends
from Polynesian migrants. This country contains the Avenue of the Baobab Trees, and its mountains have the world’s
highest species diversity of lemurs.This country is separated from the mainland by the Mozambique Channel. For the
point, name this East African island country with its capital at Antananarivo.
ANSWER: ​Madagascar
