  2018 Intl. Geography Bee US Middle School & Elementary National Championships
                                Prelims - Round 1


1. This state’s northwesternmost county is named after the Box Elder tree which grows abundantly there. This state’s
Grand Staircase-Escalante and Bear’s Ears National Monuments are in danger of delisting by the Trump administration.
This is the more Southern of the two states that contain the Wasatch Range and this state’s most populous valley is home
to cities like Orem and Provo. This state’s other natural attractions include Monument Valley and Capitol Reef while
Zion, Bryce Canyon, and Canyonlands are other national parks in this state. For the point, name this state that contains the
Great Salt Lake as well as Arches National Park.
ANSWER: ​Utah

2. An abortive Scottish colonization attempt in this country was called “New Caledonia”. This country’s Darien Gap is the
only break in the Pan-American Highway. This country’s most famous piece of infrastructure passes through Gatun Lake,
and allows ships to travel between coasts without having to round Cape Horn. For the point, name this Central American
country that contains a canal whose adjoining region was owned by the US until 1999.
ANSWER: ​Panama

3. This state’s namesake “bend” is an exclave created by an irregularity in the Mississippi River’s course. This state’s Pike
County was home to one side in the Hatfield-McCoy feud, and this state lies at the Northern end of the Cumberland Gap.
This state’s state quarter pays tribute to its horse-raising industry, the products of which are displayed in its namesake
“derby”. For the point, name this Bluegrass state with its capital at Frankfort.
ANSWER: ​Kentucky

4. This ethnolinguistic group has traditionally had its languages divided into P and Q groups by linguists. These people
inhabited the similarly named, but very geographically distant, regions of Galicia and Galatia in Roman times. These
people’s languages are divided between Insular and Brythonic varieties, the latter of which includes Cornish and Breton.
One group of these people were led against Rome by the warrior queen Boudicca, and a council named for them has
members including Scotland and Ireland. For the point, name this linguistic and cultural grouping of people, many of
whom speak Gaelic and live in the British Isles.
ANSWER: ​Celts

5. This country is the namesake of a kingdom formerly ruled by ​obas t​ hat is located in modern Nigeria. It was formerly
named after its indigenous kingdom of Dahomey. A song commonly sung on slave ships instructed sailors to “beware,
beware” of this country’s namesake Bight. This country’s largest city and seat of government is Cotonou though its
capital is officially at Porto-Novo. For the point, name this West African nation that borders Nigeria and Togo.
ANSWER: ​Benin
                                                                                             International Geography Bee
                                                                                                   Round 1 - Page 2 of 5


6. This state contains the town of Dannebrog, an early center of Danish immigration to the US. One escarpment in this
state is the namesake of its city of Scottsbluff, and this state’s Western portion contains its Sand Hills. This state contains
Chimney Rock, which was used as a landmark by travelers on the Oregon Trail, and the Platte River meets the Missouri in
this state. This state’s largest city is Omaha. For the point, name this Great Plains state with its capital at Lincoln.
ANSWER: ​Nebraska

7. This province contains the circular Manicoutin Reservoir and the Chic-Choc Mountains. This province’s Anticosti
Island and Gaspe Peninsula are located along the mouth of its longest river. This province’s Ungava Peninsula is primarily
populated by Inuit, and this province’s major cities include Saguenay and Trois-Rivieres. That larger city was founded in
the 16th century by Jacques Cartier and translates as “Royal Mountain”. For the point, name this Canadian province that is
home to the city of Montreal and predominantly speaks French.
ANSWER: ​Quebec

8. The ​fado​ style of guitar music originates from this country, as does the machete, a precursor of the ukulele. This
country’s Algarve Region is named for the Arabic word for “West”. This country controls the island of Madeira as well as
the Azores, both of which lie off its west coast. This country’s city of Porto is one potential origin of its name. For the
point, name this Western European country with its capital at Lisbon.
ANSWER: ​Portugal

9. Joaquin Balaguer established a system of national parks on this island, resulting in a starkly visible divide in vegetation
between its two halves. One half of this island contains the Gulf of Gonaives and the city of Leogane, the site of a 2010
earthquake. The other half of this island has a major tourist industry centered on its cities of Punta Cana and Santo
Domingo. This island contains two capitals, one of which is Port-au-Prince. For the point, name this island that contains
Haiti and the Dominican Republic.
ANSWER: ​Hispaniola

10. This country’s White Highlands were for years off-limits to its native African residents. This country’s island of Lamu
is one of its few Muslim regions. This country is home to the Maasai Mara Game Reserve, and its ethnic groups include
the Luo, Kalenjin, and Kikuyu, who launched the Mau Mau Rebellion. This country’s port city of Mombasa is its second
largest, and while this country does not contain it, Serengeti National Park is just across this country’s border with
Tanzania. For the point, name this African country with its capital at Nairobi.
ANSWER: ​Kenya

11. This city’s Bronzeville neighborhood was the subject of a poetry collection by Gwendolyn Brooks. This city also
contains an Anish Kapoor sculpture colloquially called “the Bean”. This city’s parks include Grant Park and Lincoln Park,
which contains this city’s zoo. This city’s tallest building was known as the Sears Tower until 2009. For the point, name
this city that contains the Willis Tower and lies along the coast of Lake Michigan, the largest in Illinois.
ANSWER: ​Chicago

12. The “Great Berm” is located on one of this country’s borders. One breakaway region controlled by this country is led
by the POLISARIO front and has its capital at El Aiaun ​(pr. El eye YOON)​. This country’s cities of Safi, Fes, and
Meknes are located north of its Atlas Mountains, and the coastal Spanish cities of Melilla and Ceuta are otherwise
surrounded by this country’s territory. This country may have derived its English name from its medieval capital of
Marrakech. For the point, name this North African country with its capital at Rabat.
ANSWER: ​Morocco
                                                                                             International Geography Bee
                                                                                                   Round 1 - Page 3 of 5


13. This river flows through the Alashan Mountains and the Ordos Desert, as well as an area of yellowish soil known as
the Loess Plateau. This river’s most recent change of course brought its mouth from Jiangsu Province to the Gulf of Bo
Hai; those course changes and their accompanying floods led this river to be nicknamed “China’s Sorrow”. For the point,
name this river, one of China’s two longest along with the Yangtze.
ANSWER: ​Yellow​ River (accept ​Huang​ He)

14. This state’s biomes include rainforests on the Cape York Peninsula which are found near the eastern shore of the Gulf
of Carpentaria. This state is also home to the city of Townsville, a major access point to its main tourist attraction, which
is under threat from climate change and the crown-of-thorns starfish. This state contains the Northern end of the Great
Dividing Range, and its state capital of Brisbane is Australia’s third largest city. For the point, name this Northeastern
state of Australia, the northernmost of its two named for Queen Victoria.
ANSWER: ​Queensland

15. The most distant point from the center of the earth is located in this mountain range. This mountain range’s rain
shadow forms the Sechura Desert, and the fortress of Sacsawaman was built by an empire centered in this mountain range.
This mountain range contains Mount Chimborazo and Mount Aconcagua, and it runs through capitals such as Sucre and
Quito. This mountain range, the world’s longest, runs from Colombia to Argentina. For the point, name this South
American mountain range.
ANSWER: ​Andes

16. This state’s “panhandle” is home to its city of Frisco, and this state’s largest city contains Joel Osteen’s Lakewood
Church, which he was criticized for not opening during Hurricane Harvey. This state’s flagship university houses the
Lyndon Johnson Presidential Library, and the Alamo was the site of a massacre of independence fighters in this state. For
the point, name this southern US state that contains the cities of San Antonio and Houston.
ANSWER: ​Texas

17. This country’s Southeast is home to the majority-Shia city of Najran, and this country is the southernmost that
contains the Nafud Desert. This country’s port of Dhahran is near the most productive oil field in history, and this country
is connected to another by the King Fahd Causeway. This country is home to a desert also known as the “Empty Quarter”,
the Rub al-Khali. This country also contains the two holiest cities in Islam, Mecca and Medina. For the point, name this
Middle Eastern country with its capital at Riyadh.
ANSWER: ​Saudi Arabia

18. This body of water’s Tangier Island speaks a dialect of English that’s remained largely unchanged since the 17th
century. The islands of Assateague and Chincoteague in this body of water are home to a wild horse population, and the
James and Rappahannock Rivers flow into this body of water. This body of water is separated from the Atlantic Ocean by
the Delmarva Peninsula, and the Potomac River flows into this bay. For ten points, name this bay that makes up most of
the coastline of Maryland and Virginia.
ANSWER: ​Chesapeake​ Bay
                                                                                             International Geography Bee
                                                                                                   Round 1 - Page 4 of 5
19. The Kaya and Koguryo Kingdoms ruled from this peninsula. The Taebaek Sanmaek mountain range runs down the
length of this peninsula, and one of its two countries contains mountains such as Kumgang and Paektu. This peninsula’s
other country contains the cities of Daegu and Busan, and the two countries on this peninsula are separated by a
demilitarized zone. The nuclear program of one country on this peninsula threatens the other country’s capital of Seoul.
For the point, name this peninsula divided into “North” and “South” countries.
ANSWER: ​Korean​ Peninsula (accept ​Korea)

20. This is the westernmost of the two countries that share the Bialowieza Forest, the last habitat of the European Bison.
This country is divided into Voivodships, and its region of Silesia contains the cities of Katowice and Wroclaw. This
country’s port of Gdansk was formerly known as Danzig. This country’s capital was formerly Krakow, but was moved in
1596. For the point, name this Eastern European country with its capital at Warsaw.
ANSWER: ​Poland

21. This civilization may have collapsed due to a centuries-long war between the kingdoms of Mutal and Ka’an. This
civilization built the sites of Kohunlich and Tulum, and this civilization may have practiced human sacrifices in
underground lakes called cenotes. This civilization built the cities of Tikal and Palenque as well as the world heritage site
of Chichen Itza. For the point, name this civilization that inhabited Southern Mexico and northern Central America.
ANSWER: Classic ​Maya

22. The White Night riots occurred in this city after the assassination of its mayor, George Moscone, and an openly gay
member of its board of supervisors, Harvey Milk. This city’s Tenderloin and Barbary Coast districts were once its primary
slums, and this city’s Castro district is a center of gay culture. This city was leveled by an earthquake and firestorm in
1906. For the point, name this California city located on a namesake bay.
ANSWER: ​San Francisco

23. One of these regions’ name translates as “once you get in, you’ll never get out”. These regions include the
Dasht-e-Kavir and Dasht-e-Lut in Iran, and the Thar example of these regions is also called the Great Indian. Copper
mining is a profitable industry in a landform of this type in South America near the city of Antofagasta. “Cold” examples
of these regions include the Gobi in Mongolia. For the point each, name these dry regions, one example of which is the
Sahara.
ANSWER: ​Deserts

24. This city was once split into a separate state from its suburb of Niteroi. This city’s slums include the German Complex
and the City of God, and its Barra de Tijuca neighborhood is one of its richest. Pollution is a major issue in this city’s
Guanabara Bay, and Sugarloaf and Corcovado Mountains overlook this city. The latter mountain contains this city’s
famous Cristo Redentor statue. For the point, name this Brazilian city that recently hosted the 2016 Summer Olympics.
ANSWER: ​Rio de Janeiro

25. This body of water is connected to the extremely salty Kara Bogaz Bay by a rocky ridge that occasionally floods over.
Ports on this body of water include Aytrau and Turkmenbasy. This body of water is connected to the neighboring and
shrinking Aral Sea by a canal, and the city of Baku is a national capital on this body of water. This is the world’s largest
inland body of water. For the point, name this saline lake that borders Turkmenistan, Iran, and Azerbaijan.
ANSWER: ​Caspian​ Sea
                                                                                             International Geography Bee
                                                                                                    Round 1 - Page 5 of 5
26. This country’s Sperregebiet National Park is named for a region that non-employee natives were forbidden to enter.
This country’s Herero and Nama tribes were the target of a German campaign of genocide, and its Caprivi Strip was the
subject of dispute between colonial powers. This country’s Skeleton Coast is named for its high number of shipwrecks,
and its town of Walvis Bay was until 1994 controlled by its neighbor, South Africa. For the point, name this southwest
African country, a former German colony.
ANSWER: ​Namibia

27. This region is located Northeast of Buzzards Bay, and this region contains the cities of Hyannis and Barnstable. This
region’s city of Provincetown is located at its northern tip while Woods Hole, in the southwest of this region is home to a
oceanographic institution. The islands of Martha’s Vineyard and Nantucket are located due south of this region. For the
point, name this region of eastern Massachusetts that protrudes into the Atlantic and nearly surrounds its namesake Bay.
ANSWER: ​Cape​ ​Cod

28. The Cauvery river in this country is the focus of disputes between two of its states. During World War II, the Battle of
the Tennis Court occurred in the city of Kohima in what is now the capital of this country’s state of Nagaland. This
country annexed its present-day state of Goa from the Portuguese during Operation Vijay. Kashmir was partitioned in
1948 between this country and its predominantly Muslim neighbor. For the point, name this country with several ongoing
boundary disputes with Pakistan.
ANSWER: ​India

29. This country’s Mergui Archipelago is home to the seafaring nomadic Moken People. This country’s hill tribes include
the Shan and Wa, and this country’s Rakhine State has recently been the site of clashes between Buddhists and Muslims.
Those clashes are widely considered an ongoing genocide against the Rohingya people. The Irrawaddy River runs through
this country, and this country’s former capital of Yangon is located at its delta. For the point, name this country with its
capital at Naypyidaw, widely known as Burma.
ANSWER: ​Myanmar​ (accept ​Burma​ before last word)

30. The Ludlow Massacre, in which striking coal miners were killed, occurred in this state. The sources of the White and
Arkansas Rivers are in this state, and the Black Canyon of the Gunnison is one of this state’s four national parks, which
also include Mesa Verde. “America the Beautiful” was inspired by a view from this state’s Pike’s Peak. For the point,
name this Western state whose cities include the university town of Boulder and its capital of Denver.
ANSWER: ​Colorado

Extra Tossup – ONLY READ IF A QUESTION IS BOTCHED!

31. ​This territory is separated from its neighbors by the Maroni River. Henri Charierre escaped from the Devil’s Island
Prison colony in this territory, and this territory contains the European Space Agency’s primary launch site. This
territory’s capital is the namesake of a red variety of pepper, and this territory borders Suriname and Brazil. For the point,
name this French territory, the only European colony on the South American continent.
ANSWER: ​French Guiana
