  2018 Intl. Geography Bee US Middle School & Elementary National Championships
                                Prelims - Round 4


1. This tribe had uranium mined at towns including Shiprock on their land, and in their namesake “long walk” Kit Carson
deported this tribe to a reservation in Texas. This tribe’s reservation completely surrounds the smaller Hopi reservation,
and this tribe provided “code talkers” during World War II, since their language was too complex for Japanese
codebreakers to parse. For the point, name this tribe native to Arizona and New Mexico.
ANSWER: ​Navajo​ (accept ​Dineh​)

2. A discovery on this peninsula led Luis and Walter Alvarez to propose their most famous theory. This peninsula
contains the city of Merida and portions of the state of Campeche (​pr. cam-PAY-chay​). This region contains the
Chixculub Crater, which is thought by many to be responsible for the extinction of the dinosaurs. This peninsula also
contains the state of Quintana Roo, home to the tourist destination of Cancun. For the point, name this peninsula in
southeastern Mexico.
ANSWER: ​Yucatan​ Peninsula

3. This river’s delta is home to the Ogoni people, who launched an independence movement after oil exploitation of their
homeland. This river’s largest tributary is the Benue, and it passes through the city of Timbuktu. Capital cities along this
river include Bamako and Niamey, and it is the namesake of two countries it passes through. For the point, name this
third-longest river in Africa, which originates in the Guinea Highlands.
ANSWER: ​Niger​ River

4. This country’s police forces committed the Andijan Massacre, and this country’s Karakalpak ethnic minority lives in its
west. This country contains most of the fertile Ferghana Valley. This country’s Tughril Beg Madrasa was built by the
Timurid Dynasty in its city of Samarkand, and this country’s city of Bukhara was a depot on the Silk Road. For the point,
name this Central Asian country with its capital at Tashkent.
ANSWER: ​Uzbekistan

5. Six Companies, Inc. was the primary builder of this structure, and Boulder City was built to house this structure’s
builders. This structure’s building was supervised by Frank Crowe, and this structure was originally named for Boulder
Canyon. This structure holds back Lake Mead, and was named for the predecessor of the president under which it was
built. For the point, name this dam on the Nevada-Arizona border.
ANSWER: ​Hoover Dam

6. This island is separated from its mainland by the Serpent’s Mouth and Dragon’s Mouth straits, and this island was the
home of the ethnically Indian author of ​A Bend in the River,​ V.S. Naipaul. This island is located on the Eastern end of the
Gulf of Paria, and calypso music originated on this island. For the point, name this island contains the city of
Port-of-Spain, and is paired with Tobago in the name of a Caribbean country.
ANSWER: ​Trinidad
                                                                                              International Geography Bee
                                                                                                     Round 4 - Page 2 of 5


7. An aluminum processing city whose name means “Magnetic Mountain”, Magnitogorsk, is located in this mountain
range. A river that shares its name with this mountain range runs through the Aytrau Depression, and this mountain range
separates two continents also divided by the Bosporus and Caucasus Mountains. European and Asian Russia are divided
by, for the point, what mountain range?
ANSWER: ​Ural​ Mountains

8. This city contains a garden designed by Yo-Yo Ma based on a Bach cello suite, and its Chinatown is centered on
Dundas Street. This city has suburbs such as York and Missisauga, and its name derives from a Mohawk word chronicled
by Samuel de Champlain. Alek Minassian recently committed a truck attack in this city. The tallest building in Canada,
the CN Tower, is located in this city. For the point, name this largest city by population in Canada.
ANSWER: ​Toronto

9. This territory contains the former nuclear testing site of Moruroa, and this territory’s five major island chains include
the Gambier, Austral, and Tuamotu Archipelagos. This territory’s capital of Papeete (​pr. pah-PAY-tay​) is located on its
largest island. Bora Bora is located in the Society Islands in this territory, as is Tahiti. For the point, name this Pacific
island territory under direct administration from Paris.
ANSWER: ​French Polynesia

10. This mountain’s three peaks are Kibo, Mawenzi, and Shira, and this mountain was once named for Kaiser Wilhelm of
Germany. This mountain is the fourth highest of the Seven Summits, and it is located near the Great Rift Valley. This
mountain is slightly higher than the nearby Mount Kenya, and it is the highest point in Tanzania. For the point, name this
mountain, also the highest point in Africa.
ANSWER: Mt. ​Kilimanjaro

11. A belt of Welsh-speaking settlements in this region is located in Chubut Province, and this region contains the
mountainous Torres Del Paine National Park. This region contains the low-lying Valdes Peninsula, and the Mapuche (pr.
mah-POO-chay​) people are native to this region. An island off the coast of this region is the location of the world’s
Southernmost city, Ushuaia. That island off this region’s coast is Tierra del Fuego. For the point, name this famously cold
and windy region of southern South America.
ANSWER: ​Patagonia

12. The Ara River runs through this city. This city contains the world’s largest fish market at Tsukiji, and this city
contains the districts of Shinjuku and Harajuku. This city is often considered as part of a single urban area with
neighboring Yokohama, and this city was known as Edo before the Meiji Restoration. Matthew Perry led an American
mission into this city’s namesake bay. For the point, name this city on the island of Honshu, the capital of Japan and the
largest city by population in the world.
ANSWER: ​Tokyo

13. This river forms part of the names of a group of Bulgars and another of Germans, both of whom were removed from
its basin in the 1940s. This river flows through the city of Astrakhan, and a city now named for this river was formerly
known as Tsaritsyn, then Stalingrad. This river’s tributaries include the Moskva River, and this river is the largest in its
country that’s not located in Siberia. For the point, name this river in Russia, the longest in Europe.
ANSWER: ​Volga
                                                                                            International Geography Bee
                                                                                                   Round 4 - Page 3 of 5


14. The Death Mask of Agamemnon was discovered in one of this country’s archaeological sites by Heinrich Schliemann.
That site is near the modern city of Hisarlik, west of its city of Bursa. The Mausoleum of Halicarnassus and the Temple of
Artemis at Ephesus were located in this modern country, as is a former church now known as the Aya Sofya. The Hagia
Sophia is located in this country’s city of Istanbul, its largest. For the point, name this Eurasian country currently led by
Recep Tayyip Erdogan (​pr. AIR-doe-wan​) with its capital at Ankara.
ANSWER: ​Turkey

15. The “battle” of this city occurred during protests against the World Trade Organization in 1999. This city was named
for a Suquamish chief, and is located on the shores of Puget Sound. This city is home to the headquarters of companies
founded by Jeff Bezos and Howard Schultz, Amazon and Starbucks, and its most notable landmark is the Space Needle.
For the point, name this largest city in Washington.
ANSWER: ​Seattle

16. This country fought a war with its Northern neighbor after a contentious World Cup qualifier match, and a peace
accord in this country between Barrio 18 and its largest gang recently fell apart. This country is the southernmost of
Central America’s “Northern Triangle” countries, and it was named for a Spanish term for Jesus. For the point, name this
country with its capital at San Salvador.
ANSWER: ​El Salvador

17. This landmark was originally known by a word meaning “The Six Grandfathers”, and before its continuation by his
son Lincoln, the creator of this landmark had earlier sculpted the Confederate monument at Stone Mountain. A sculpture
of Crazy Horse facing this landmark has been under construction for the past 70 years, and this landmark was sculpted by
Gutzon Borglum. For the point, name this landmark, a South Dakota mountain that features the faces of Jefferson,
Lincoln, Washington, and Theodore Roosevelt.
ANSWER: ​Mount Rushmore

18. A Southeastern branch of this mountain range is known as its “Dinaric” branch. This mountain range includes peaks
such as the Jungfrau, and is traversed by the St. Gotthard Pass. This mountain range’s highest peak translates as “White
Mountain”, and this mountain range is also the location of the Matterhorn. The highest point in this mountain range is
Mont Blanc, which is located on the French-Swiss border. For the point, name this mountain range that takes up most of
Austria, Switzerland, and Liechtenstein.
ANSWER: ​Alps

19. The cession of two islands in this body of water to honor a king’s birthday caused a major international incident, and
this body of water contains the Dahlak Archipelago. This body of water’s outlets include the Bab al-Mandab, and the
ports of Jeddah and Port Said (​pr. sigh-EED​) are both on this body of water. This body of water is connected to the
Mediterranean Sea by a canal that passes through the city of Ismailia and separates the Sinai peninsula from the rest of
Egypt. For the point, name this “colorful” body of water that borders the Suez Canal.
ANSWER: ​Red​ Sea

20. This island’s Mount Merapi is the center of many local creation myths, and this island’s largest city is part of the
Jabodetabek urban area. This island was the center of the ancient Majapahit Empire as well as a city known in colonial
times as Batavia. This island’s other cities include Yogyakarta and Medan, as well as Bandung, which hosted the first
conference of the Non-Aligned Movement. This world’s most populous island contains the Buddhist shrine of Borobudur.
For the point, name this Indonesian island that contains its capital of Jakarta.
                                                                                              International Geography Bee
                                                                                                     Round 4 - Page 4 of 5
ANSWER: ​Java

21. This city’s Shawmut Peninsula has been artificially expanded several times, and this city contains the Back Bay
neighborhood. Yawkey is a T stop in this city used by fans attending games at its Fenway Park. This city’s Old North
Church is preserved as part of its Freedom Trail, and this city’s harbor was blockaded by the Intolerable Acts. Crispus
Attucks was among five men killed by British soldiers in this city in 1770. Colonists including Samuel Adams dressed as
Mohawk native Americans to dump tea into, for the point, what city’s harbor?
ANSWER: ​Boston

22. This country’s city of Puerto Montt has been near the epicenter of several earthquakes, and its city of Temuco is the
largest in its Araucania region. This country controls the Robinson Crusoe Island in the Juan Fernandez Archipelago,
whose climate is modulated by the Humboldt Current. This country gained its northern coast in the War of the Pacific.
This country is often nicknamed the “shoestring republic” due to its length. For the point, name this South American
country with its capital at Santiago.
ANSWER: ​Chile

23. Eric Robert Rudolph committed this city’s deadliest ever terror attack, and this city is represented in Congress by civil
rights activist John Lewis. This city is the location of the Peachtree Center mall as well as the headquarters of Coca-Cola.
This city was burned near the beginning of William Sherman’s March to the Sea during the American Civil War. For the
point, name this city, the largest in Georgia.
ANSWER: ​Atlanta

24. The Gukurahundi was a series of massacres against the Ndebele people in this country, and this is the southernmost of
two countries that shares a waterfall called “Mosi-oa-Tunya” in local languages. This country’s dominant ethnic group is
the Shona, and it shares Victoria Falls with its northern neighbor, Zambia. This country was known as Rhodesia before
obtaining black majority rule in 1980. For the point, name this African country with its capital at Harare.
ANSWER: ​Zimbabwe

25. This state is home to the pre-Columbian Great Serpent Mound, and a river in this state caught fire in 1970, thus
providing much of the impetus for the establishment of the EPA. That river, the Cuyahoga, is the namesake of a national
park in this state and flows through a city in this state also home to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. This state’s cities of
Akron and Youngstown were formerly hubs of the steel industry. For the point, name this state that contains the cities of
Columbus, Cincinnati, and Cleveland.
ANSWER: ​Ohio

26. The musician Robert Johnson legendarily sold his soul to the devil at a crossroads in this state, and Fannie Lou Hamer
founded a faction of the Democratic Party named for this state where the Freedom Summer primarily took place. Emmett
Till was murdered in this state’s town of Money. This state’s cities of Waveland and Biloxi were devastated by Hurricane
Katrina. For the point, name this southern state with its capital at Jackson.
ANSWER: ​Mississippi

27. This country is the home of a very large water tank called the Sea of Parakrama, and before its colonization, this
country was home to the kingdom of Kandy. This country is separated from the mainland by the Palk Strait, and this
country was the site of a decades-long civil war between its Tamil and Sinhalese ethnic groups. For the point, name this
South Asian island country off the southeastern coast of India.
ANSWER: ​Sri Lanka
                                                                                               International Geography Bee
                                                                                                      Round 4 - Page 5 of 5


28. The Mountain Party, a branch of the national Green Party, only operates in this state. The Upper Big Branch Mine
disaster took place in this state in 2010, and this state’s city of Harper’s Ferry was the target of a raid by John Brown. This
state seceded from its Eastern neighbor in 1863 due to its residents’ Unionist sympathies. For the point, name this coal
mining state with its capital at Charleston.
ANSWER: ​West Virginia

29. ​Two answers required​. These two countries jointly held a colony then called the “New Hebrides” until 1980, and a
refugee camp nicknamed “the Jungle” emerged in 2015 in one of these countries to accommodate refugees seeking
asylum in the other. The border between these two countries was fixed by treaty at Calais, rather than in the tunnel that
connects them, known as the Chunnel. Forces left one of these countries for the other during Operation Neptune, which is
better known as D-Day. For the point, name these two European countries with their capitals at London and Paris.
ANSWER: ​UK and France​ (accept ​England​, ​Great Britain​, ​Britain​ for ​UK​)

30. This landmark is located within Sagarmatha National Park, and one common route to this landmark runs through the
Western Cwm [coom] of its Lhotse Face. Sir George Mallory died on this landmark, the first documented successful
ascent of which was completed by Tenzing Norgay and Edmund Hillary. Sherpas are often employed to guide travelers
up, for the point, what world’s highest mountain located on the Nepal-China border?
ANSWER: Mt. ​Everest​ (accept ​Chomalongma​)

Extra Tossup – ONLY READ IF A QUESTION IS BOTCHED!

31. ​Two merchants from this city stole its patron saint’s relics by concealing them in a barrel of pork. This city’s Bridge of
Sighs is so named since it led to a prison, and this city contains the central district of Rialto and the Arsenal, as well as the
Piazza di San Marco. This city once controlled a maritime empire including the city of Ragusa. For the point, name this
Italian city famed for its many canals.
ANSWER: ​Venice​ (accept ​Venezia​)
