  2018 Intl. Geography Bee US Middle School & Elementary National Championships
                                Prelims - Round 3


1. This body of water contains the island of Fernando Po, and the largest ports on this body of water include Douala and
Port Harcourt. This body of water contains arms such as the Bight of Bonny, and this body of water’s name comes from a
general term for a region of Africa that is now shared by countries with their capitals at Bissau, Malabo, and Conakry. For
the point, name this West African gulf.
ANSWER: Gulf of ​Guinea

2. The ports of Fogo, Twillingate, and Morton’s Harbour are named in one folk song originating on this island. One
airport on this island took on planes diverted from New York during the 9/11 attacks; that airport is in its town of Gander.
This island’s largest city is on its Avalon Peninsula, and the French dependencies of St. Pierre and Miquelon are located
off the coast of this island. This island was referred to as “Vinland” in Viking sources, and its largest city is St. John’s. For
the point, name this island that forms a Canadian province with the region of Labrador.
ANSWER: ​Newfoundland

3. This ethnic group fought a “civil war” in the 1980s between factions led by its Talabani and Barzani families. This
ethnic group has declared the state of Rojava in part of its territories, and the cities of Erbil and Kirkuk are controlled by
this ethnic group. Military units formed by members of this ethnic group include the YPG and the Peshmerga. This ethnic
group voted for independence from Iraq by an overwhelming margin in a 2017 referendum. For the point, name this
non-Arab ethnic group present in Turkey, Iraq, Iran, and Syria.
ANSWER: ​Kurd​s

4. A geologist who secured extra funding for this project is the namesake of Mount Whitney, and this project’s
development was supported by the Big Four, who included Leland Stanford. Chinese laborers were imported to build this
project’s Western portion, which began at Sacramento. This project was finished in 1869 when a golden spike was driven
in at Promontory Point, Utah. For the point, name this structure that, when finished, could carry passengers across the
United States by train.
ANSWER: ​Transcontinental Railroad​ (accept ​Central Pacific​ Railroad, ​Union Pacific​ Railroad)

5. The Bay Islands, which include Roatan, are off the coast of this country, and this country’s southern coast is on the Gulf
of Fonseca. This country’s second largest city is San Pedro Sula, and this country contains the Mayan site of Copan. This
country is located north of Nicaragua and El Salvador. For the point, name this Central American country that has its
capital at Tegucigalpa.
ANSWER: ​Honduras
                                                                                             International Geography Bee
                                                                                                    Round 3 - Page 2 of 5
6. A city named for this landform is currently facing a water crisis that may result in emergency rationing on “Day Zero”.
This landform was originally named for the storms that surrounded it by Bartolomeu Dias. This landform is the namesake
of three South African provinces as well as a city that serves as co-capital with Bloemfontein and Pretoria. For the point,
name this cape near the southern tip of Africa.
ANSWER: Cape of ​Good Hope

7. This country’s capital is home to the pyramidal Palace of Peace and Reconciliation as well as the Bayterek Tower,
whose design is based on this country’s mythology. That capital was built on the site of the city of Aqmola. This country
is the location of Russian space travel facilities at Baikonur, and its Lake Balkhash is one of Central Asia’s largest. For the
point, name this country with its capital at Astana.
ANSWER: ​Kazakhstan

8. This region’s city of Shigatse was the historical capital of its Tsang region. Some definitions of this region include the
adjoining areas of Kham and Amdo, and this region contains the Yarlung Tsangpo River. A government of this region
lives in exile in Dharmsala, India, and this region’s capital includes the Potala Palace. This region is bordered by Xinjiang
and Sichuan provinces, and its capital is located at Lhasa. For the point, name this autonomous region of China once
governed by the Dalai Lama.
ANSWER: ​Tibet​ (accept ​Xizang​)

9. Several landmarks in this city are named for the industrialist Griffith J. Griffith. Antonio Villaraigosa once served as
mayor of this city, and one riot in this city was sparked by the beating of Marquette Frye. Riots against this city’s Korean
community took place after Latasha Harlins was shot and Rodney King was beaten, and this city’s suburb of Compton
was an early center of hip-hop culture. For the point, name this city whose Watts area was the site of riots in 1965, the
largest in California.
ANSWER: ​L​os ​A​ngeles

10. President Lazaro Cardenas nationalized an oil industry centered on this body of water. This body of water contained
the Ixtoc I drilling rig, which blew out in a 1979 disaster. Oil exploration in this body of water is primarily conducted by
Pemex, and an island in this body of water was destroyed by the 1900 Galveston Hurricane. This body of water was the
location of the Deepwater Horizon disaster, which wreaked havoc on its ports of Pensacola and Mobile. For the point,
name this body of water on which New Orleans and Veracruz lie.
ANSWER: ​Gulf of Mexico

11. This country’s city of Cox’s Bazar is the site of a complex of refugee camps, and it contains a large mangrove forest
called the Sundarbans. This country contains a tribal area in the Chittagong Hill Tracts outside its second largest city. This
country is the location of the Brahmaputra River Delta and was known as East Pakistan before a bloody war of
independence in the early 1970s. For the point, name this Asian country with its capital at Dhaka.
ANSWER: ​Bangladesh

12. This country’s capital’s primary tourist attraction is the Malecon district, and this country’s Granma province shares
its name with its country’s state newspaper. This country contains ports such as Cienfuegos, and the Sierra Maestra runs
down the length of this country. The United States’ lease on one of this country’s port cities expired long ago, but the US
still maintains facilities at Guantanamo Bay. For the point, name this Caribbean country with its capital at Havana.
ANSWER: ​Cuba
                                                                                              International Geography Bee
                                                                                                     Round 3 - Page 3 of 5
13. The ports of Wawa and Copper Harbor are located on this body of water, as is Michipicoten Island. A university
named for this body of water is located in Sault Sainte Marie. The namesake island of Isle Royale National Park is located
in this body of water, and this body of water’s ports include Thunder Bay and Duluth. For the point, name this largest
freshwater lake in North America, the largest of the great lakes.
ANSWER: ​Lake Superior

14. One district of this city gained its name, which translates as “Mount Parnassus”, from a circle of poets who would read
their works aloud there. This city is surrounded by immigrant-heavy suburbs called banlieues, and it is centered on the Ile
de la Cite. Cathedrals in this city include one dedicated to St. Denis at Montmartre as well as a more famous one dedicated
to the Virgin Mary, Notre Dame. This city is the capital of a country that also contains the cities of Toulon and Marseille.
For the point, name this capital of France.
ANSWER: ​Paris

15. It’s not in the Middle East, but this country was home to the Gaza Kingdom. This country was the site of a civil war
between Frelimo and Renamo, and the port cities of Sofala and Kilwa are located in this modern-day country, which was a
Portuguese colony until 1975. This country surrounds Malawi on two sides, and, besides South Africa, is the only country
to border Swaziland. For the point, name this East African country with its capital at Maputo.
ANSWER: ​Mozambique

16. This country’s Preah Vihear Temple was the subject of a boundary dispute resolved in its favor, and this country’s
largest lake grows by a factor of six during its rainy season. That lake and the river that feeds it are both named Tonle Sap.
This country’s city of Siem Reap is a popular destination for tourists seeking to visit a large temple complex that appears
on this country’s flag. That complex in this country is Angkor Wat. For 10 points, name this Southeast Asian nation with
its capital at Phnom Penh.
ANSWER: ​Cambodia

17. This state’s highest point of Jerimoth Hill was inaccessible for years since it was on the property of an old man who
strictly enforced trespassing laws. This state’s Aquidneck Island contains the town of Portsmouth and this state is also
home to the cities of Pawtucket and Woonsocket. Narragansett Bay in this state lies off the shore of its resort town of
Newport. This state was founded as a colony by Roger Williams, who also founded its capital of Providence. For the
point, name this New England state, the smallest in the United States.
ANSWER: ​Rhode Island

18. This country’s indigenous people are divided into “plains” and “mountain” groups and speak Austronesian languages.
This country’s cities of Tainan and Kaohsiung (​pr. COW-shung​) were established by Han Chinese immigrants, many of
whom fled here after the Chinese Civil War. The island this country is on was historically known as Formosa. For the
point, name this country with its capital at Taipei, which is claimed in its entirety by China.
ANSWER: ​Taiwan​ (accept ​Republic of China​, prompt on ​China​)

19. The Kittatinny Mountains in this state lie northwest of its Picatinny Arsenal where the US military develops
explosives. The Ramapo Mountain people are a mixed-race tribe in this state, and this state’s city of Fort Lee was the
target of an intentional traffic stoppage in 2013. This state’s Pine Barrens are a less populated region of it, and the
Delaware River forms the western border of this state. This state’s Atlantic City is notable for its casinos, and its largest
city is Newark. For the point, name this Mid-Atlantic state with its capital at Trenton.
ANSWER: ​New Jersey
                                                                                             International Geography Bee
                                                                                                    Round 3 - Page 4 of 5
20. A neighboring country recently invaded and captured this country’s city of al-Bab. A rebellion against this country’s
government started in its city of Hama, and its city of Raqqa was recently recovered from a militant group originally
named for this country and its neighbor, Iraq. For the point, name this country where rebel forces are trying to overthrow
President Bashar al-Assad.
ANSWER: ​Syria

21. A chain of islands in this country includes Ameland and Trexel and is the home of a dialect closer to English than any
other language indigenous to the European Union. This country is the location of the IJsselmeer (​pr.​ ​EYE-sel-mare​) and
the provinces of Zeeland and Frisia, and much of its land area is composed of landfill called polders. For the point, name
this low-lying European country with its capital at Amsterdam and a seat of government in The Hague.
ANSWER: ​Netherlands​ (prompt on Holland)

22. During the Cold War, this state’s Frenchman Flat was used for nuclear testing, and this state’s Yucca Mountain is the
site of a controversial nuclear waste repository. Other landforms in the north of this state include the Black Rock Desert
and Pyramid Lake. This state, which is represented in Congress by Dean Heller shares Lake Tahoe and Valley National
Park with its western neighbor. For the point, name this state whose capital is Carson City.
ANSWER: ​Nevada

23. This country’s coast is home to the Rihla Monastery, and it contains the cities of Tarnovo and Vidin. This country
controls the Southern half of the fruit-producing Dobrudzha region, and this country lost its Aegean Coast in the Second
Balkan War. This country’s capital does not border the Danube river, and is surrounded by the Balkan Mountains. This
country contains the coastal city of Varna. For the point, name this Southeastern European country with its capital at
Sofia.
ANSWER: ​Bulgaria

24. This country is home to a canal project called the Great Man-Made Waterway, and its Gulf of Sidra was the target of
US bombing raids in the 1980s. This country is traditionally divided into three regions including Cyrenaica and Fezzan
This country’s city of Misrata is the headquarters of many militias, and its city of Tobruk frequently changed hands in
World War II.. An attack on a US diplomatic facility in this country in 2012 took place in this country’s city of Benghazi.
For the point, name this North African country with its capital at Tripoli.
ANSWER: ​Libya

25. This country was home to the Muisca Confederacy until the 16th century. This country’s Guajira Peninsula is a
popular ecotourism destination, and this country controls the islands of San Andres y Providencia. This country’s cities of
Cali and Medellin were for a time home to rival drug cartels, and this country lies at the Northern end of the Andes
Mountains. For the point, name this South American country with its capital at Bogota.
ANSWER: ​Colombia

26. A guerrilla leader known as the “Swamp Fox”, Francis Marion, operated in this state, and the Revolutionary War
battles of Kings Mountain and Cowpens took place in this state. This state contains Congaree National Park, and its city of
Myrtle Beach is a popular tourist destination. This state, the first to secede from the union, is the location of Fort Sumter,
where the first shot of the Civil War was fired. For the point, name this state with its capital at Columbia.
ANSWER: ​South Carolina
                                                                                             International Geography Bee
                                                                                                    Round 3 - Page 5 of 5
27. This country is the location of a glacier known as Huapapa in its native language. It’s not Great Britain, but the
Canterbury Plain contains this country’s third largest city, which used to be its second largest until a recent earthquake.
This country is also home to the Southern Alps, and its extinct species include a flightless bird called the Moa. This
country is split between two islands, South Island and North Island, which contains its capital of Wellington. For the
point, name this country located east of Australia in the Pacific Ocean.
ANSWER: ​New Zealand

28. Abraham Lincoln traveled to his first inauguration in disguise due to an assassination plot uncovered in this city. This
city’s Sandtown-Winchester neighborhood was the site of violence after the death of Freddy Gray, and this city is served
by Thurgood Marshall Airport. This city was named for a British Catholic nobleman whose proper name was Cecil
Calvert. This city was once home to Edgar Allan Poe, thus inspiring its football team’s nickname, the Ravens. For the
point, name this largest city in Maryland.
ANSWER: ​Baltimore

29. The peach-palm and cassava plants were domesticated in this river’s basin, and this river contains the island of Marajo
at its delta. This river is known as the Solimoes for most of its length, and its tributaries include the Negro and Xingu.
This river flows through the cities of Manaus and Belem, and piranhas are native to this river. For the point, name this
longest river in South America, located primarily in Brazil.
ANSWER: ​Amazon

30. This state’s highest point of Black Mesa is located in its panhandle region, and the proposed State of Sequoyah was
located on this state’s land. A district nicknamed “Black Wall Street” was destroyed in a 1921 riot in this state. The Red
River forms this state’s southern border, and this state contains the cities of Norman and Tulsa. For the point, name this
Great Plains state located between Kansas and Texas.
ANSWER: ​Oklahoma

Extra Tossup – ONLY READ IF A QUESTION IS BOTCHED!

31. ​This city can be accessed by crossing the Urubamba River, and this city was a fortress for a rump state led by
monarchs including Tupac Wallpa and Manco. This city was rediscovered by Hiram Bingham in 1911. This city is the
Westernmost of the two New Seven Wonders in South America. For the point, name this Incan ruin whose name means
“The old Peak”.
ANSWER: ​Machu​ Picchu
