           2019 International Geography Bee
         US Middle School & Elementary School
               National Championships
                    Preliminary Round 3
1. James Holston wrote a critique titled The Modernist City by interviewing the main architect of
this city’s original plan; that city was known as Plano Piloto at early stages. The local
government created this city’s Lake Paranoá, beside which lie the Alvorada Palace and the
neighborhood Lago Sul. This “forward capital” founded in 1960 was ordered by Juscelino
Kubitschek to fulfill a campaign promise and was designed by Oscar Niemeyer. For the point,
name this planned city that replaced Rio de Janeiro as the capital of Brazil.
ANSWER: Brasilia

2. An outlaw named Ed Watson hid out in this modern day national park in the settlement of
Chokoloskee after escaping the Oklahoma Territory for allegedly killing outlaw Belle Starr.
Reporter Marjory Stoneman Douglas was known as the “Grand Dame” of this national park after
writing a 1947 book about it. This park’s ecosystem has been greatly degraded through the
introduction of the Burmese Python. Much of the Biscayne Aquifer is recharged by the
grasslands of this national park, which is crossed by a highway nicknamed “Alligator Alley.” For
the point, name this national park and refuge of the Florida Panther.
ANSWER: Everglades National Park

3. A 1692 earthquake formed the small island of Palisadoes in this country, which contains
Norman Manley International Airport and the burial site of Captain Morgan. Hagley Gap and
Mavis Bank are premier growing sites for this nation’s namesake Blue Mountain Coffee. Much
of this island’s black population descend from escaped Spanish slaves who formed maroon
settlements in its interior after the English captured it in 1655. For the point, name this island
nation in the Caribbean where Rastafarianism started, with its capital at Kingston
ANSWER: Jamaica
4. A group of barrier islands off this state’s coast called the Golden Isles include both the big and
small St. Simons islands near the city of Brunswick. The Venable brothers once owned
mountainous property in this state where the Second Ku Klux Klan was founded after the
lynching of Leo Frank in Marietta. Sites like Forsyth Park and the Oglethorpe Barracks can be
found in the historical portion of this state’s city of Savannah. For the point, name this southern
state whose capital is Atlanta.
ANSWER: Georgia

5. The Sergei Eisenstein film October depicts the Women’s Death Battalion killing members of
the Provisional Government here, allowing the Bolsheviks to storm this building. The Imperial
Guard fired on a crowd led by Father Georgy Gapon outside this structure in an event known as
“Bloody Sunday.” For the point, name this official residence of the Czar in St. Petersburg built
by the Peter the Great that is within the Hermitage complex.
ANSWER: Winter Palace [prompt on “The Hermitage”]

6. This city is the namesake southern terminus of a car rally that originally began in Paris, though
recent security concerns in Mauretania have moved that race to South America. At this city’s
Deux Mamelles Hills, one can find the tallest bronze statue in Africa, the African Renaissance
Monument. This city, along with nearby Goree (pr. gor-AY), St. Louis (pr. sahn loo-EE), and
Rufisque, made up the “Four Communes,” where colonial Africans could achieve French
citizenship. This city is on the Cap-Vert peninsula on the Atlantic Ocean. For the point, name
this capital of Senegal.
ANSWER: Dakar

7. The island of Krk in this nation is the site of the igloo-like stone Church of St. Dunat, a
Christian martyred during the persecutions of Julian the Apostate. The Roman Emperor
Diocletian retired to a palace in what is now a coastal city in this country. The Danube River
passes through a city in this nation named for being on its confluence with the Vuka river. In the
17-century, this nation and Montenegro were home to the Republic of Ragusa, centered on this
nation’s city of Dubrovnik. For the point, name this crescent shaped Eastern European nation led
from Zagreb.
ANSWER: Republic of Croatia

8. A tiny island in New Zealand named for this man is a part of the larger Chatham Islands,
which also references an earldom held by this man. A city named for this man has a giant ball
fixture made from an old Jeep called reCARstruction. Beneath a city named for this man is a
system of abandoned underground tunnels called the Keeling Coal Road. During the Seven
Years War, a fort once known as Fort Duquesne was renamed after this statesman. For the point,
name this British statesmen who names a “Burgh” in Western Pennsylvania.
ANSWER: William Pitt the Younger [Accept Pittsburgh or Pitt Island]
9. This territory became the 211th and most recent member of FIFA in 2016, while it is the
smallest member of UEFA (pr. you-AY-fah) in both land area and population. The James Bond
movie The Living Daylights begins with an action scene in this territory that features this
location’s namesake primates. From the top of this territory’s lighthouse, Europa, one can see the
Rif Mountains. Along with Jebel Musa, this region’s Rock was one of the ancient Pillars of
Hercules. For the point, name this territory that shares its name with the strait separating the
Mediterranean Sea from the Atlantic.
ANSWER: Gibraltar [Accept Jabal Tariq]

10. This city’s neighborhood of Harbor Town is on a small peninsula called Mud Island, which
singer James Taylor once called “ominous” while performing at its namesake amphitheatre.
Congress declared the “Home of the Blues” to be in this city where a funeral procession for B.B.
King took place on Beale Street. This city is the site of both the National Civil Rights Museum,
which was built around the Lorraine Hotel where Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, and
Elvis’s mansion Graceland. For the point, name this city in west Tennessee that is named for an
ancient Egyptian capital.
ANSWER: Memphis

11. A city in this nation was redesigned by Japanese architect Kisho Kurokawa, particularly the
cityfront near the Ishim River. In the extreme south of this nation one can find Charyn Canyon,
which was formed by a river that originated from the Tian Shan mountains. At a 2012 shooting
tournament in Kuwait, an incorrect version of this country’s national anthem was played that had
originally been composed for the Sasha Baron Cohen movie featuring Borat. This largest
landlocked nation by area recently changed its capital’s name to honor former president
Nursultan Nazarbayev. For the point, name this former Soviet Republic with the cities of Almaty
and, formerly, Astana.
ANSWER: Republic of Kazakhstan

12. In 1917, Marcel Duchamp and company declared the “Independent Republic of [this
neighborhood]” and released some balloons to celebrate. This neighborhood’s Washington
Square is the setting for much of the Manuel Puig novel Eternal Curse on the Reader of These
Pages, in which the impoverished Larry takes care of Mr. Ramirez. This neighborhood was the
site of a riot by the LGBT movement beginning at the Stonewall Inn. For the point, name this
now upscale Manhattan neighborhood that shares its name with a borough of London, and is
often simply known as “The Village.”
ANSWER: Greenwich Village
13. The rare mineral Gwihabaite was first found in the northwest of this nation’s Drotsky’s Cave.
Francistown, a former gold mine town and this nation’s second largest city, lies near the Shashe
River, a tributary of the Limpopo. This nation’s currency, the Pula, literally means “rain” and
replaced the South African Rand in the mid 1970s. This country was known as Bechuanaland in
colonial times and has recently been developing its ecotourism sector in the Okavango Delta near
the Kalahari Desert. For the point, name this former English colony in southern Africa with
capital at Gaborone.
ANSWER: Republic of Botswana

14. This nation is only in the world whose farming is 100% organic and it began a nationwide
ban on tobacco in 2010. Nearly half of this country’s exports are electricity to its southern
neighbor, provided by recent developments like the 90 foot Tala Power Station. This home
country of the picturesque Paro Toktsang Monastery originated the “Gross National Happiness”
index which was coined by its “Dragon King” in 1972. For the point, name this predominantly
Buddhist South Asian nation with capital at Thimphu in the Himalayas.
ANSWER: Bhutan [Accept Druk yul]

15. It’s not Illinois, but the first nuclear fission reactor to produce a usable amount of electricity
was built in this US state. The Experimental Breeder Reactor was built in this state’s namesake
Department of Energy National Laboratory, which is a center for nuclear fuel research located
near this state's namesake Falls. The Nez Perce and Fort Hall Indian Reservations lie in this state,
the latter of which partially encompasses Pocatello. For the point, name this state which also
includes the cities of Coeur D'Alene (pr. coor duh LANE) and Boise.
ANSWER: Idaho

16. Chief Kepuha’s conversion to Catholicism on this island allowed the Spanish to build the
Dulce Nombre de Maria Cathedral. The Sergeant Shoichi Yokoi was found living in Talofofo
Cave of this island in the early 1970s, and returned to Japan soon after. His superior, Lt. Gen.
Hideyoshi Obata, committed seppuku at this island’s Mount Mataguac after failing to hold it.
This island’s motto is “Land of the Chamorros,” in reference to the dominant Austronesian group
that still inhabit the island. For the point, name this territory in Micronesia ceded to the US along
with the Philippines and Puerto Rico at the end of the Spanish-American War.
ANSWER: Guam
17. In addition to an archipelago known as the Ssese Islands, this body of water surrounds
Ukerewe Island, which possesses a far higher-than-average albino population. The documentary
Darwin’s Nightmare focused on environmental damage in this lake after the introduction of the
Nile Perch, which eradicated of many of this lake’s species of fish known as cichlids. John
Hanning Speke named this body of water for his monarch after discovering it while attempting to
locate the source of the Nile River. Touching Kenya, Uganda, and Tanzania, for the point, name
this body of water, Africa’s largest lake by area.
ANSWER: Lake Victoria [accept Nam Lolwe; accept Nalubaale; accept Nyanza]

18. Swann Memorial Fountain, sculpted by Alexander Calder, can be found in this city’s Logan
Circle, with a swan in that fountain representing Wissahickon Creek. In a Sylvester Stallone
movie, the steps of this city’s art museum were a famous training spot for the character Rocky
Balboa. Near this city’s Naval Yard, the Schuylkill (pr. SCHOOL-kill) River meets the
Delaware River. This one time US capital also had the first library in what is now the USA,
founded by Benjamin Franklin’s circle of local intellectuals. For the point, name this
southeastern Pennsylvania metropolis whose name translates to “Brotherly Love.”
ANSWER: Philadelphia

19. At this site, archeologists found a golden scarab representing Queen Tiye of Egypt, wife of
Amenhotep III, in a room with other idols. It’s not Troy, but Heinrich Schliemann discovered
beehive tombs known as “tholoi” in this ancient city, which contained a death mask that led to
him to say “I have gazed upon the face of Agamemnon.” For the point, name this powerful
Greek city-state during the Greek Bronze Age in the Peloponnese.
ANSWER: Mycenae

20. Lorenzo Dow Baker bought 160 units of this commodity while in Jamaica in 1876 to recoup
losses he experienced during an Orinoco River expedition. The Panama Disease pathogen nearly
exterminated this commodity’s “Gros Michel” subset, while its most popular variety is named
for William Cavendish. In Cabbages and Kings, American writer O. Henry described the
fictional state of Anchuria as a “republic” of this commodity. Plantains are a green variety of, for
the point, what tropical fruit that is the centerpiece of the ice cream dish known as a "split."
ANSWER: Bananas [Accept Banano; accept Plantain or Platano before mentioned]

21. One of this mountain’s peaks was recently renamed to honor Hulda Crooks, a woman who
climbed this mountain well into her 90s and was known as “Grandma (this mountain)”. This
mountain in the Sierra Nevadas is named for a geologist who discovered the first glacier in the
US, which also carries his name, while exploring Mount Shasta. For the point, name this
California peak, the tallest in the contiguous United States.
ANSWER: Mount Whitney
22. This city is home to the Rote (pr. ROH-tah) Flora, a squatter hub turned cultural theatre and
center of the fight against gentrification in this city. This city’s St Pauli district is home to the
nightlife district of the Reeperbahn, where the Beatles honed their craft in the early 1960s. This
city, whose official name still contains the word “Hanseatic,” is bordered by the federal states of
Schleswig-Holstein and Lower Saxony. For the point, name this port city and second largest in
Germany that names a certain type of sandwich.
ANSWER: Hamburg

23. The Bogong Moth seasonally travels to and from a range with this name to avoid high
temperatures and predators like the Mountain Pygmy Possum. Another range with this name is
home to Fiordland National Park near the city of Queenstown. The original range with this name
was home to the iron working Hallstatt culture and is now home to the resorts of St. Moritz and
Chamonix (pr. shah-moe-NEE). For the point, give this name of largest mountain ranges in
New Zealand and Australia, as well as one in Europe of which Mont Blanc is a member.
ANSWER: Alps [Accept Australian Alps or Southern Alps]

24. Rem Koolhaas and Fernando Donis designed a site in this city called “Waterfront City” that
features a Death Star-like building near a dredged creek. Maktoum bin Hasher Al Maktoum is
responsible for this city’s growth in the 20th century after he made it a free port, supplanting
Lingeh as the local trading hub. Just off the coast of this city is “The World,” an artificial
archipelago in the Persian Gulf roughly in the shape of the world map. For the point, name this
site of Burj Khalifa and largest city in the United Arab Emirates.
ANSWER: Dubai [Accept Dubay]

25. The USS Pueblo environmental research ship is on display in this city, having been captured
for “spying” near Ryo Island. This city’s Arch of Triumph, ten meters taller than the French Arc
de Triomphe, is located near Moran Hill. The fall of the USSR made it financial impossible for
this city’s national government to finish the Ryugyong Hotel, making it the tallest unoccupied
hotel in the world. For the point, name this city with multiple monuments depicting Kim Il Sung
and Kim Jong-Il, the capital of North Korea.
ANSWER: Pyongyang

26. The largest city in this region is home to the Gros Horloge, a 14th century astronomical clock
meant to represent the sun with 24 individual rays. The River Couesnon forms this region’s
historical border with a western neighbor known as Breizh in its native tongue. The reporter
Ernie Pyle came ashore 75 years ago today in this region, one day after its Utah Beach was taken
by US troops. For the point, name this site of the D-Day invasion in 1944, a region in northern
France.
ANSWER: Normandy
27. Oskar J. W. Hansen designed a monument on one side of this building that reads “They died
to make the desert bloom,” in reference to the 112 people that died constructing this structure.
The reservoir created by this structure is named for the planner of the Boulder Canyon project,
Elwood Mead. For the point, name this dam in Nevada and Colorado named for the US President
at the beginning of the Great Depression.
ANSWER: Hoover Dam

28. Alfred Dreyfus was once a prisoner on this territory’s Devil’s Island, part of the Salvation
Islands. About half of the economic activity of this territory is generated by the presence of a
spaceport in Kourou, the main launch point of the European Space Agency. Cayenne is the
capital and largest city in this territory, which is the only mainland region in the Western
Hemisphere still controlled by a European power. For the point, name this French Overseas
territory located in South America.
ANSWER: French Guiana

29. A tributary of this river named the Ruak is in the middle of what the CIA calls “The Golden
Triangle,” an economic zone known for its illicit opium production. As a result of changing
water levels, this river experiences seasonal “flow reversal," leading to flooding at the Tonle Sap
Lake. This river that begins in the Tibetan Basin has a namesake “Commission” made up of
Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, and Vietnam. For the point, name this longest Southeast Asian river.
ANSWER: Mekong River

30. A bearded seal on this island, named Tama after a local river, became a national celebrity
after he was spotted on this island’s Mazuko bridge. Due to its resemblance to a short-necked
lute, the largest freshwater lake on this island is named after the Biwa. This island’s town of
Beppu is famous for the monkeys that hang out in its hot springs. Forty percent of the population
of this island can be found in its Kanto Plain. For the point, name this East Asian island with
cities like Osaka and Tokyo.
ANSWER: Honshu



Extra

31. Steel tycoon Theodore Cobblepot was the longest serving mayor of this city. A group called
Birds of Prey met at this city’s Clock Tower, which was destroyed by Barbara Gordon. “The
Narrows” was a neighborhood in this city destroyed by vaporized nerve gas in 2005, and in 2012
Bane tried to destroy this city with a neutron bomb. For the point, name this city whose two most
famous citizens, Bruce Wayne and Batman, have mysteriously never been seen together.
ANSWER: Gotham
