  2018 Intl. Geography Bee US Middle School & Elementary National Championships
                                Prelims - Round 2


1. One monastery in this country refuses admission to women and functions as a nominally independent state. This
country annexed Western Thrace after a war with one of its neighbors, and this country has blocked Macedonia’s entry
into NATO due to a naming dispute. This country’s island of Corfu was once the center of the Septinsular Republic, and
this country’s island chains include the Cyclades and Dodecanese. The islands of Rhodes and Crete are located in, for the
point, what southeastern European country with its capital at Athens?
ANSWER: ​Greece

2. It’s not Missouri, but this state’s Reelfoot Lake was created as a result of the New Madrid Earthquake. This state was
the location of the Battles of Stones River and Fort Donelson, and this state’s Oak Ridge National Laboratory played a
role in producing the first atomic bomb. This state, which has the Grand Ole Opry in its capital, is commonly divided into
Eastern, Western, and Middle portions, and this state contains the cities of Knoxville and Nashville. For the point, name
this southern state.
ANSWER: ​Tennessee

3. This province is the location of the Haida Gwaii, also known as the Queen Charlotte Islands. This province’s largest
island is home to the city of Nanaimo as well as a ski resort at Blackcomb. One sporting event hosted in this province was
marred by the death of a luger from Georgia on a training run in Whistler in 2010. For the point, name this western
province of Canada home to the city of Vancouver.
ANSWER: ​British Columbia

4. This country contained the ancient Jiroft culture, located East of the territory of the Elamites. This country contains the
holy city of Qom, and this country’s nuclear program is centered on its city of Fordow. This country contains the cities of
Tabriz and Mashhad. This country shares its Southeastern region of Baluchistan with Pakistan, and this country’s
residents speak the Farsi language. For the point, name this middle Eastern country with its capital at Tehran.
ANSWER: ​Iran

5. This island contains Hempstead, the largest town in the United States, as well as the ports of Port Jefferson and Oyster
Bay. This island’s Peconic Bay adjoins its city of Montauk. This island’s Hamptons region is famous for its mansions, and
this island’s namesake Sound separates it from Connecticut. Nassau County is located on this island, as is the New York
City borough of Queens. For the point, name this largest island in New York.
ANSWER: ​Long​ Island
                                                                                            International Geography Bee
                                                                                                   Round 2 - Page 2 of 5
6. Carstensz Pyramid is located in this island’s main mountain range, which was traversed by the Kokoda Trail. That
mountain range on this island is the Owen Stanley Range. Putrajaya is the capital of one half of this island, which was a
Dutch colony until 1962 and is known locally as Irian Jaya. Tok Pisin is spoken on the other half of this island whose
capital is Port Moresby. For the point, name this island divided between Indonesia and a country with this island, along
with “Papua”, in its name.
ANSWER: ​New Guinea

7. This river’s namesake perch is a widespread invasive species. Sections of this river are named for Prince Albert and
Queen Victoria. This river passes through a swampy region called the Sudd. Lake Tana is the source of one of this river’s
two main branches, which meet at a namesake mosque. The Aswan High Dam is located on this river with “Blue” and
“White” branches that meet in Khartoum, Sudan. For the point, name this river, the world’s longest, whose delta contains
the city of Alexandria in Egypt.
ANSWER: ​Nile

8. A “marriage of the waters” ceremony was conducted after the creation of this infrastructure project. This project was
derisively nicknamed “Clinton’s ditch” as it was being built, and it runs through the classically named cities of Utica,
Rome, and Troy, as well as the Finger Lakes region. This project was built to connect the capital of its state, Albany, to
the port of Buffalo. For the point, name this canal in New York.
ANSWER: ​Erie​ Canal

9. This country’s city of Treinta y Tres is named after a group of “33 Orientals” who secured its independence. A civil war
in this country was the proximate cause of the War of the Triple Alliance, and this country lies at the Eastern end of the
Rio De La Plata. Bands from this country dominated Argentine pop charts in its namesake “invasion”, and this country
gained its independence from Brazil. For the point, name this South American country with its capital at Montevideo.
ANSWER: ​Uruguay

10. Trading posts such as Matsumae were critical to this island’s colonization. This island is home to a species of “snow
monkey” that enjoys bathing in its hot springs. This island is separated from its neighbors by the La Perouse and Tsugaru
Straits, and is home to the last remaining speakers of Ainu. This island’s southern neighbor is Honshu. This island is the
northernmost of its country’s four main islands. For the point, name this Japanese main island that is not Shikoku or
Kyushu.
ANSWER: ​Hokkaido

11. In 1773, an earthquake destroyed this country’s colonial capital of Antigua, and a genocide in the 1980s targeted its
Ixil people. This country’s north is largely composed of a limestone plateau, the Peten Department. In 1975, this country
stopped claiming all of its eastern neighbor, a country then known as British Honduras. This country’s Mayan sites
include the city of Tikal, and, along with Belize, it borders southern Mexico. For the point, name this Central American
nation.
ANSWER: ​Guatemala

12. One of this country’s overseas territories is an international center of nickel mining, will have an independence
referendum in 2018, and is home to the indigenous Kanak people and the elusive Kagu bird. Another of this country’s
overseas territories contains the infamous prison colony of Devil’s Island as well as the Kourou Space Center. This
country controls the island of New Caledonia, as well as a Polynesian territory that contains Tahiti. For the point, name
this European country that controls a namesake section of Guiana.
ANSWER: ​France​ - there’s a new caledonia reference in packet 1 in the Panama question
                                                                                            International Geography Bee
                                                                                                   Round 2 - Page 3 of 5


13. This country’s major clans include the Darod and Hawiye, and this country contains the separatist regions of Jubaland
and Puntland, as well as another centered on the city of Hargeisa. During a war against Muhammad Farrah Aidid, the
“Black Hawk Down” incident occurred in this country’s capital. This country is the target of an African Union mission led
by its neighbors, Ethiopia and Kenya. For the point, name this famously anarchic African country with its capital at
Mogadishu.
ANSWER: ​Somalia

14. This city is planned to be the Western terminus of the Gordie Howe International Bridge, which will replace the
heavily-trafficked Ambassador Bridge. This city’s metro area contains the Arab-majority towns of Hamtramck and
Dearborn as well as the River Rouge auto plant, which was built by Henry Ford. Motown music was developed in this city
and was named after its status as an auto manufacturing hub. For the point, name this largest city in Michigan.
ANSWER: ​Detroit

15. The cities of McAllen and Reynosa are located on this river, as is the city of Brownsville, and a bend in this river is
the namesake of Big Bend National Park. A boundary now set by this river was located at the Rio Nueces until the Treaty
of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and the Mexican city of Ciudad Juarez is located on this river. For the point, name this river that
separates Texas and Mexico, whose name is a Spanish phrase meaning “big river”.
ANSWER: ​Rio Grande

16. The White City is a group of Bauhaus-style buildings in this country, and this country contains the port of Eilat. This
country contains the cities of Beersheba and Haifa, and this country’s Sea of Galilee adjoins the Golan Heights region.
Donald Trump recently controversially moved the US embassy in this country out of its city of Tel Aviv. For the point,
name this predominantly Jewish country that claims its capital at Jerusalem.
ANSWER: ​Israel

17. This landmark is surrounded by a formation called the Mogollon Rim, and it was first traversed by John Wesley
Powell, who names an artificial lake just North of this landmark. A “skywalk” at this landmark was built on an Indian
Reservation that contains part of it; that reservation is controlled by a branch of the Apache tribe. The Colorado River
flows through this landmark, which is split between Northern Arizona and Southern Utah. For the point, name this
canyon, the largest in the United States.
ANSWER: ​Grand Canyon

18. One site built by this empire is only accessible by crossing the Urubamba River. Networks of sacred stones called
wakas​ were built by this empire. This empire built a road network that connected lodges frequented by messenger runners
called ​tampus.​ This empire’s capital of Cusco formerly housed most of its royal mummies. For the point, name this
medieval empire centered on Peru’s Andes Mountains.
ANSWER: ​Inca​n

19. This ethnic group was defeated at the Battle of Blood River, which began when they attacked a group of wagons
trying to pass through their territory during the “Great Trek”. This ethnic group also won the Battle of Isandlwhana
against the British, and this ethnic group names a province also known as “Natal”. This ethnic group was led by a man
who pioneered the Iklwa spear; that man was Shaka. For the point, name this South African ethnic group that established
an empire in the 19th century.
ANSWER: ama​Zulu
                                                                                              International Geography Bee
                                                                                                     Round 2 - Page 4 of 5
20. A dolphin named for this river is also known as the Susu. One of this river’s sources is Nanda Devi, and along with
the Yamuna, it is mentioned in a certain country’s national anthem. This river is the site of the Kumbh Mela pilgrimage,
and it flows through the holy city of Varanasi. The cities of Patna and Kolkata also lie on this river, which flows into the
Bay of Bengal. For the point, name this longest river in India.
ANSWER: ​Ganges​ (accept ​Ganga​)

21. This state’s Malheur National Wildlife Refuge was occupied by right-wing extremists in 2016. This state’s Willamette
Valley was the destination of many pioneers, who displaced its indigenous Klamath and Nez Perce tribes. This state’s
cities of Corvallis and Eugene are both located in that valley. Its largest city is known as a center of the hipster subculture,
and its capital is located at Salem. For the point, name this Western state whose largest city is Portland.
ANSWER: ​Oregon

22. This country contains the Costa de Donana, the only desert on its continent. This country contains the Guadalquivir
River, which has an Arabic name origin. In various regions of this country, the Galician, Valencian, and Basque languages
are spoken, but this country’s dominant dialect remains Castilian. This country shares the Iberian Peninsula with its
western neighbor. For the point, name this European country with its capital at Madrid.
ANSWER: ​Spain

23. Cesar Pelli designed a pair of towers that are this country’s tallest. This country’s city of Johor Baharu is separated
from a neighboring city-state by a strait. This country is often divided into three parts: Sarawak, Sabah, and the peninsula.
This country’s namesake peninsula is connected to the mainland by the Isthmus of Kra, and this country’s capital is the
home of the Petronas Towers. That capital city is Kuala Lumpur. For the point, name this Asian country that shares the
island of Borneo with Brunei and Indonesia.
ANSWER: ​Malaysia

24. One earthquake in this state was strong enough to create new lakes as far away as Tennessee. That earthquake was
centered on this state’s city of New Madrid. This state’s city of Hannibal was the basis of the setting of ​Tom Sawyer​, and
this state’s Lake of the Ozarks is at the center of a tourist area that includes the city of Branson. Eero Saarinen designed
the Gateway Arch in this state’s largest city. For the point, name this Midwestern state whose largest city is St. Louis.
ANSWER: ​Missouri

25. These people established a “republic” headquartered at Nassau, and Ocracoke Island was the headquarters of another
one of these people. One of these people built the “Money pit” at Oak Island in Canada, and another of these people
sacked the city of Portobelo. Port Royal was renowned as a hideout of these people, and these people, who included Henry
Avery, William Kidd, and Edward Teach, also known as Blackbeard. For the point, name these people who robbed ships.
ANSWER: ​pirates​ (accept ​privateers​) pirates also mentioned in Somalia in this round

26. This region is home to the Sayan and Sikhote Alin Mountain ranges, as well as the Jewish Autonomous Region of
Birobidzhan. The cities of Magadan and Omsk are among the largest in this region, and this region contains the Republics
of Sakha, Khanty-Mansi, and Altay. Sakhalin Island is located in this region. This region contains 75% of its country’s
area, but 25% of its population. For the point, name this Asian region of Russia.
ANSWER: ​Siberia​ (prompt on Russia until the word “largest” in the second line - accept Asiatic Russia until mention)
                                                                                              International Geography Bee
                                                                                                     Round 2 - Page 5 of 5
27. The Northern part of this country was occupied by Ansar Dine militants in the early 2010s. That region of this country
contains the city of Gao, formerly the capital of the Songhai Empire. That northern region is home to the Tuareg people
and to the city of Timbuktu, formerly a center of Islamic learning in this country’s namesake empire. That empire’s
leaders included Mansa Musa. For the point, name this West African country with its capital at Bamako, which controlled
a namesake trading empire in the medieval period.
ANSWER: ​Mali

28. This state’s capital is located between Lakes Monona and Mendota in Dane County, and this state’s Door County is a
popular tourist destination. That county is located near this state’s city of Oshkosh. This state’s largest city is home to an
art museum designed by Santiago Calatrava and is a historical center of brewing along Lake Michigan . For the point,
name this midwestern state that contains the cities of Milwaukee and Madison.
ANSWER: ​Wisconsin

29. This structure was fought over in a 1933 battle after the Japanese capture of the Rehe domain. This structure meets the
Gulf of Bo Hai at the city of Shanhaiguan, and this structure was initially built during the Warring States Period and
consolidated by Qin (​pr. Chin​) Shihuangdi. This structure was rebuilt in the 14th century to keep out Jurchen and Mongol
invaders. For the point, name the world’s longest fortification in a namesake East Asian country.
ANSWER: ​Great Wall​ of China (accept ​Changcheng​ Wanli)

30. This state’s capital is home to the US’s largest Basque population, and a Shoshone (​pr. show-show-nee​) chief is the
namesake of this state’s city of Pocatello. This state contains both an Indian reservation and a city named for the Coeur
d’Alene (​pr. COOR duh LANE​) Tribe, and this state forms the eastern borders of Washington and Oregon. For the
point, name this state with its capital at Boise, which is famed for its production of potatoes.
ANSWER: ​Idaho

Extra Tossup – ONLY READ IF A QUESTION IS BOTCHED!

31. ​One city on the shores of this body of water was its nation’s capital until it was burned by William Walker in 1850.
One proposed waterway that would have run through this body of water was going to be built by a Hong Kong company
until its cancellation in 2018. Routes running through this body of water are often touted as alternatives to the Panama
Canal, and this body of water lies to the South of the smaller Lake Managua. For the point, name this largest lake in its
namesake Central American country.
ANSWER: Lake​ Nicaragua
