US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                 Round 4



                                            Round 4
Bee Round 4

(1) A popular slot canyon at this national park is nicknamed “the Subway.” The Virgin River passes
through this park, which is home to Kolob Canyon. A trail beginning at the Grotto ends at the top of this
national park’s Angels Landing. Found near the town of Springdale, it is in the same state as such parks
as the nearby Bryce Canyon and Arches. For the point, name this Utah national park with a biblically
inspired name.
ANSWER: Zion National Park

(2) A group of people native to this region were defeated in the Conquest of the Desert. The Florentino
Amerigho Dam is found on this region’s Chubut River, and the Colorado and Barrancas Rivers are often
considered a border of this region. The Mapuche people inhabit this region, which is thought to contain
the southernmost city on Earth. The Tierra del Fuego is considered a part of, For the point, what region
of the southern Andes found in Argentina and Chile?
ANSWER: Patagonia (anti-prompt on Tierra del Fuego between “Desert” and “Tierra del Fuego”)

(3) The Crazy Water Park was an amusement park in this region until it was burned down by arsonists
in 2010. The Erez Crossing is in this region, whose main road is the Salah al-Din Highway. After the
signing of the Oslo Accords, construction began on this region’s Yasser Arafat International Airport. Ariel
Sharon ordered a withdrawal from this region in 2005. Along with the West Bank, this region is one of
the Palestinian territories. For the point, name this strip bordering Israel.
ANSWER: Gaza Strip (prompt on Palestine before mentioned)

(4) Hundreds of people were killed in a 2005 massacre in this country’s city of Andijan. The Samanid
mausoleum is located in a city in this country that was a major hub along the Silk Road. Bukhara can
be found in this modern country, where royal decrees were once declared in the Registan public square in
Samarkand. The Aral Sea was extensively used to irrigate cotton in, for the point, what Central Asian
country with capital at Tashkent?
ANSWER: Republic of Uzbekistan

(5) The Codex Flateyensis preserves an account of this location, which was explored by a man whose
father was banished after killing a neighbor. An archaeological site with a name meaning “Jellyfish Cove”
may have been part of this colony; that site, L’Anse Aux Meadows, was found on Newfoundland. Leif
Erikson was thought to have travelled to, for the point, what region of North America explored by Vikings,
named for its ability to support grapevines?
ANSWER: Vinland




                                                  Page 1
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                  Round 4


(6) Mehetia lies east of this island, whose capital’s name translates to “water from a basket” in its native
language. The island’s Mount Orohena was the subject of a landscape painting by an artist who also
depicted a woman from this island lying on a white bed in Spirit of the Dead Watching. Papeete is the
capital of, For the point, what island that Paul Gauguin visited in French Polynesia?
ANSWER: Tahiti

(7) Ibn Hawqal once described this city as having “a hundred mosques and marabouts.” A “Battle for”
this city is chronicled by a 1966 film by Gillo Pontecorvo. Miguel de Cervantes was once held captive in
this city, which was ruled by a Dey. A location that once served as a Phoenician trading post was used to
build this city’s Casbah. The FLN is a political organization headquartered in this city, which was ruled
by France until 1962. For the point, name this capital of Algeria.
ANSWER: Algiers

(8) A Byzantine artist designed many mosaics in this city’s Daphni Monastery. A god legendarily
dropped limestone over this city to form its Mount Lycabettus. Santiago Calatrava designed a twin-roofed
velodrome and the main Olympic Stadium for this city’s hosting of the 2004 Olympics. Located in the
region of Attica, this city’s most famous temple ruins is found on the Acropolis. For the point, the
Parthenon is located in what Greek city?
ANSWER: Athens

(9) One city in this state contains the borough of La Mesa, which has the largest Chinese community in
Mexico. Guadalupe Island is located off the coast of this state, which contains the western portion of the
Sonoran Desert. Ramón Arellano Félix founded a drug cartel centered in this state’s city of Tijuana. The
northernmost point of Mexico is in this state, which mostly lies west of the Sea of Cortez. For the point,
name this Mexican state that shares part of its name, and a Pacific coastline, with a US state.
ANSWER: Baja California (prompt on Baja; do not accept Baja California Sur; do not prompt on
California alone)

(10) An ajouag is a shepherd’s flute commonly used in the music of the Kabyle people of this ethnicity.
The Tifinagh script is used by many of these people, most of whom are Sunni Muslim. A dynasty of these
people had its capital at Marrakesh and was known as the Almoravids. The Maghreb is alternatively
called “the land of” these people, over 25 million of whom live in Morocco. For the point, name this ethnic
group of northern Africa whose name is related to the Greek for “foreign.”
ANSWER: Berbers (accept Amazigh)

(11) A large earthquake struck this body of water on September 11th, 1927, releasing and igniting
flammable gases that lit the shores of Yevpatoria. Cities along the southern shore of this sea include
Sinop. In its north, the Strait of Kerch connects this body of water to the Sea of Azov. The 2014 Winter
Olympics were held along this sea’s city of Sochi. The Bosporus connects the Sea of Marmara to, For the
point, what sea that the Crimean Peninsula juts into, due north of Turkey?
ANSWER: Black Sea




                                                  Page 2
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                 Round 4


(12) The highest art gallery on Earth can be found near the top of this city’s 63 Building. This city’s
Moonlight Rainbow Fountain operates on the Banpo Bridge. This city’s Hansung fortress wall protected it
during rule by the Joseon Dynasty. The Han River flows through this city, where an affluent neighborhood
inspired the song “Gangnam Style.” For the point, name this capital of South Korea.
ANSWER: Seoul

(13) A 1332 flood of this river killed approximately seven million people. This river’s Ordos loop ends
with its confluence with the Wei River in Shaanxi. Jinan is near this river’s mouth in the Bohai Sea. This
river receives its name from the sediment it carries from the Loess Plateau. “China’s sorrow” is, For the
point, what river that is connected by the Grand Canal to the Yangtze?
ANSWER: Yellow River (or Huang He)

(14) Illegal logging is a rampant problem in this country’s Damrei Mountains. Apsara dance shows are
popular in this nation’s city of Siem Reap. The Tonlé Sap is found in center of this country, whose former
king names its city of Sihanoukville. Like its northern neighbor, this country’s capital city lies on the
Mekong River. For the point, name this country between Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam in Southeast Asia
with capital Phnom Penh.
ANSWER: Cambodia

(15) Sven Yrvind developed an invention similar to this device that uses three pieces of glass to create
eight images; that device is called a Bris. Gago Coutinho developed a version of this device for the
Portuguese Navy. This doubly reflecting instrument calculates an angle based on position relative to the
horizon and a given astronomical body. For the point, name this navigational instrument that takes on a
60 degree shape, unlike the 90 degree quadrant.
ANSWER: sextant

(16) This state’s Baxter State Park is home to its tallest peak, popular with long range hikers. In
2003, David Foster Wallace visited and reported on a food festival in this state along Penobscot Bay.
This state includes an island home to Bar Harbor, Mount Desert Island. Acadia National Park, Mount
Katahdin, the city of Bangor, and the US’s second-largest city named Portland are in, For the point, what
lobster-producing New England state with capital Augusta?
ANSWER: Maine

(17) The project Panropa intended to create a massive hydroelectric dam on this body of water. Cape
Spartel lies along this body of water whose name derives from the phrase “mountain of Tariq.” Ancient
vessels would refer to a pair of natural structures at the entrance to this body of water as the Pillars of
Hercules. Morocco is separated from Spain by, for the point, what strait connecting the Mediterranean
Sea with the Atlantic Ocean?
ANSWER: Strait of Gibraltar




                                                  Page 3
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                  Round 4


(18) According to legend in this city, seven gates to Guinee are scattered in cemeteries around Canal
Street. One of those gates is near the tomb of Marie Laveau in this city’s Saint Louis Cemetery Number
1, where Nicolas Cage will eventually be buried under a nine-foot-tall pyramid. “Second liners” dance
behind funeral recessions in this city, where jazz bands often play upbeat spirituals and “When the Saints
Go Marchin’ In” in the French Quarter. For the point, name this largest city of Louisiana.
ANSWER: New Orleans

(19) The desire to maintain forests around this location led to the creation of Chagres National Park.
Miscalculations during excavation efforts at this location’s Culebra Cut led to massive landslides. Gatun
Lake is part of this location, which Omar Torrijos’ government gained control of after signing a 1977
treaty with Jimmy Carter. David McCullough’s book The Path Between the Seas analyzes the creation of
this structure, which Teddy Roosevelt acquired for the U.S. For the point, name this Central American
canal.
ANSWER: Panama Canal

(20) A mile-long gorge can be found along this mountain’s Ruth Glacier. James Wickersham names a
wall on this mountain that he could not pass during the first recorded attempt to climb it in 1903. The
Koyukon are an Athabaskan people who live around this peak. In 2015, the Department of the Interior
decided to officially change this mountain’s name. For the point, name this Alaskan peak, the highest
mountain in the United States.
ANSWER: Denali (accept Mount McKinley)

(21) A ferry service across this body of water was replaced by the Benicia-Martinez Bridge. Marin
Country is located along this body of water, whose cities are served by the BART transit system. This
body of water is fed by a river named for the wine-producing Napa Valley. This bay names a region that
includes the cities of Palo Alto and Berkeley. For the point, name this bay, named for a city home to the
Golden Gate Bridge.
ANSWER: San Francisco Bay

(22) Description acceptable. One portion of this area became a popular tourist site after Elena Filatova’s
account of a motorcycle ride through it. A pine forest in this area is known as the Red Forest due to the
sickly color of dead trees. Vladimir Pravik was one of 27 firefighters killed in this area after a “level 7”
disaster that required the creation of a “Zone of Alienation” around Pripyat. For the point, name this site
in Ukraine where, in 1986, a namesake nuclear power plant suffered a catastrophic explosion.
ANSWER: Chernobyl (accept any additional information related to the town, the region, or the nuclear
power plant; prompt on Pripyat before mentioned; prompt on the USSR and/or Ukraine before “Ukraine”
is said; prompt on Ivankiv; do not prompt on Russia)




                                                  Page 4
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                  Round 4


(23) According to one belief system, the dragon Azi Dahaka is chained to this country’s highest point.
This nation’s northwestern Lake Urmia has shrunk to less than 20 percent of its original size. Mazandaran
is one of the northernmost provinces of this nation, which was historically ruled from Tabriz. The southern
coast of the Caspian Sea is held by, For the point, what largely Shi’a Muslim country whose major cities
include Isfahan and its capital, Tehran?
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Iran

(24) In this state, the original Wabash & Erie Canal once connected the cities of Junction and Terre
Haute. Ball State University is in this state’s city of Muncie. In the late 18th century, “Mad” Anthony
Wayne oversaw a fort that developed into this state’s second largest city, Fort Wayne. Hoosier National
Forest lies just north of the Ohio River in, For the point, what midwestern US state between Ohio and
Illinois?
ANSWER: Indiana

(25) This body of water’s largest island, Olkhon, is largely inhabited by Buryats. Water levels of this
lake have increased after the creation of the Irkutsk Dam. This body of water is the setting of a folk song
set “On the Wild Steppes of” its region; that song, called “The Wanderer,” was written by convicts in
Siberia. For the point, name this Russian lake, the deepest freshwater lake in the world.
ANSWER: Lake Baikal

(26) A strait to the northwest of this body of water is named for a man who disappeared during an
attempt to circumnavigate the world under Louis XVI. Cape Povorotny lies on this body of water, which
is south of the Strait of Tartary. The Seikan Tunnel connects two islands to the east of this body of water,
which is southwest of Sakhalin. Tsushima Strait lies adjacent to, for the point, what sea bordering its
namesake nation’s island of Hokkaido?
ANSWER: Sea of Japan (accept East Sea)

(27) A.W. Tillinghast designed many of these locations including one in Long Island known as Bethpage
Black. Muirfield is an example of the links type of these locations. The Amen Corner is a notorious feature
of one of these places in Augusta, Georgia. Donald Trump owns 18 of these locations, including one at
Mar-a-Lago resort. The Open Championship and Masters are held at, for the point, what sporting venues
containing greens and fairways?
ANSWER: golf courses (accept golf clubs or similar)

(28) This territory’s Kai Tak airport was closed due to the extreme difficulty of landing airplanes there.
This territory is home to iconic red taxis and was the former site of a largely lawless area called the
Kowloon Walled City. The bank of HSBC is named after Shanghai and this city. In 1997, the U.K.
transferred control of, For the point, what Special Administrative Region of China across the Pearl River
Delta from Macau?
ANSWER: Hong Kong




                                                  Page 5
US Elementary and Middle School Nationals - International Geography Bee 2016-2017                 Round 4


(29) In this city, Pat and Harry Olivieri established a restaurant on the corner of 9th and Passyunk;
across the street, a restaurant now owned by Geno Vento sells the same signature item. People in this city
ask for “whiz wit” to order onions and Cheez Whiz on their sandwich of thinly chopped steak on a hoagie
roll. For the point, name this city, the birthplace of the cheesesteak.
ANSWER: Philadelphia (accept Philly)

(30) The largest known river dolphin species is named after this river, which is connected to a smaller
river by the Casiquiare [kah-see-kee-are-ee] canal. Europeans grew rubber in this river’s city of Manaus,
which is sometimes called the “Paris of the Tropics.” The greatest discharge of any river is experienced at
the mouth of, for the point, what longest river of South America?
ANSWER: Amazon River

Extra Question
Only read if moderator botches a question.
(31) In a cathedral in this city, sculptures of St. Nicholas and St. Peter holding candles frank the
“Silver Altar.” This city’s Royal Armory is in the Old Town area, known as Gamla stan. Ericsson
is one of the largest employers in this city, whose Parliament House is the seat of the Riksdag. This
is the capital city of a country home to footballer Zlatan Ibrahimovic and video game personality
PewDiePie. For the point, name this capital of Sweden.
ANSWER: Stockholm




                                                  Page 6
