                               International Geography Bee: Round 3
Tournament                                                                                Room                                        Division
                                                                                                                    Round        3                V JV
 Moderator                                                          Scorer                                                           (circle 1)




Student names (include                                                                                                 Final
                       1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35
full name and school)                                                                                                  score




Total pts for reaching +8          15 points            14     13      12 pts      11 points        10 points         9 points           8 points
INSTRUCTIONS:
SCORING: For correct answers, place new running total in student’s row for the corresponding question. For -1’s (3 rd incorrect interrupt), place running
total and circle it. Cross out entire column if no score change. Make sure to place scores in the column for the correct question.
REACHING +8: Remove student from round. In “Final score” column, place student’s total score (refer to the bottom row for the question on which +8
was reached). Cross out remainder of student’s row.
END OF ROUND: In “Final score” column, place final score for students not reaching +8 (may be negative).
                                  2018 International Geography Bee
                           US Varsity & Junior Varsity National Championships

                                                         Round 3
1. A popular public park in this city is named after its country’s poet Yanka Kapala. A thunderstorm triggered a 1999
stampede that resulted in over 50 deaths in this city’s Niamiha metro station. The district of Drazdy can be found in this
city that will host the 2019 European Games. Though not in Russia, this country’s Independence Avenue contains Gorky
Park and Victory Square. This city contains the administrative headquarters of the Commonwealth of Independent States.
For the point, name this capital city of Belarus.

ANSWER: Minsk, Belarus

2. The Canol Road was a failed infrastructure project around this river which has now been converted into a Heritage
Trail. A tributary of this river that is crossed by the Dempster Highway is the Peele River. An oil pipeline in this river’s
basin connects Zama City to the town of Norman Wells, where the North Slavey language is spoken. This river’s Deh
Cho Bridge shares its name with the Dene [pr. DEH-neh] word for it. Fort Providence is a city along this river that
provides one of the endpoints of the Yellowknife Highway. Emptying into the Beaufort Sea, for the point, name this
longest river in Canada.

ANSWER: MacKenzie River

3. The Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital operates in this municipal area. This region’s suburb of Kliptown is home to a
square named after Walter Sisulu. In the 1950s, police forcibly removed black families from Sophiatown and resettled
them in this area. Hector Pieterson was killed in a 1976 event in this area that is now commemorated on its country’s
Youth Day. That uprising named for this region occurred after a Bantu Education director made Afrikaans the medium of
instruction in this area. For the point, name this densely populated township in Johannesburg, a predominantly black area
of the city.

ANSWER: Sowetos (accept South Western Townships; prompt on “Johannesburg” before mentioned)

4. A river in this territory whose name translates to “river of the dead” dries up each summer and is known as the Valerik.
Medieval tower architecture of this region’s past is to be incorporated in its massive Akhmat Tower. In early 2017, this
territory’s city of Argun was reported to have concentration camps for homosexual men. To the west of this territory is the
much smaller region Ingushetia. Grozny is the capital of this territory that is bordered to the east by Dagestan. For the
point, name this federal subject of Russia in the Northern Caucasus that has been the site of much religious unrest.

ANSWER: Chechnya

5. The Cross of the Seas was built along the northern shore of this body of water in honor of Pope John Paul II. At its
southern end, the Smyth Channel opens into this body of water. The Brunswick Peninsula along this body of water
contains the city of Punta Arenas. Desolation Island is on the western side of this body of water that, along with the
Beagle Channel and the Drake Passage, is the only natural body of water connecting the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
South of mainland South America, for the point, name this body of water named for a sixteenth-century explorer.

ANSWER: Strait of Magellan
6. In 2008, the People’s Party was formed specifically to combat a law that universalized this practice in Samoa. In
Sweden, the change away from this practice occurred between 4:50 and 5:00 AM on what was known as H Day. In Asia,
this practice is observed in Thailand, Japan, and Hong Kong. The Highway Act of 1835 aimed to cut down on traffic by
institutionalizing this practice, which is a major reason why car insurance policies often don’t apply for U.S. citizens when
they travel abroad. In countries where this is practiced, the steering wheel is found in the right hand seat. For the point,
name this distinctive driving practice of some Commonwealth countries.

ANSWER: driving on the left hand side of the road (accept obvious equivalents that mention “left”)

7. A 1992 study focused on the increase in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation as a result of this particular phenomenon on the
Dalmatian coast. Especially strong examples of this phenomenon occur around the Gulf of Gabes (GAH-base). High
humidity is caused by this phenomenon, which can induce heat-related headaches among people in the Mediterranean
basin. Along with the bora, this phenomenon is responsible for the “high water” or acqua alta in the Venetian Lagoon.
Khamsin is the Egyptian name for this phenomenon which originates in the Sahara Desert. For the point, name this
seasonal wind that affects Northern Africa and Southern Europe.

ANSWER: Sirocco winds (prompt on wind or related answers)

8. The Magna Reserve Project aims to find accurate measurements of the oil supply along this river. The El Florero mine
is found along this river whose source is in the Parima Mountains. The state of Delta Amacuro is so named because it
contains the delta of this river, whose tributaries include the Meta and the Caroni Rivers. In global pop culture, the Irish
singer Enya titled one of her greatest new age hits after this South American river’s flow. By discharge, this is the second
greatest river in South America, as well as the fourth longest. For the point, name this river shared by Colombia and
Venezuela.

ANSWER: Orinoco River (accept Orinoquia River)

9. On September 19th, a prominent festival is held in this country’s Capisterre region. A kilometer-wide crater lake can be
found at the summit of this nation’s highest point of Mount Liamuiga. A fortress once nicknamed the “Gibraltar of the
Caribbean” was located on its Brimstone Hill. This country is composed of fourteen parishes and is the smallest
independent state in the Western Hemisphere in terms of both population and area. “The Narrows” are a strait that
separate the two namesake islands of this nation where Alexander Hamilton’s birthplace is now found. For the point,
name this Caribbean nation with capital at Basseterre.

ANSWER: St. Kitts and Nevis (accept St. Christopher and Nevis)

10. This country’s film Monrak Transistor sees a soldier desert the army in the hopes of pursuing a career in a country
music-like genre called luk thung. In Chai Nat province, this country provides the setting for the film Ong-Bak, which
stars a prominent martial artist from this country named Tony Jaa. This country was the setting of a World War II film
starring Alec Guinness which was an adaptation of a Pierre Boule novel about prisoners of war under Japanese control.
The film Sunset at Chaophraya [chow-PRY-uh] is set in this country, as was Bridge on the River Kwai, which depicted
the construction of a railway to Burma. For the point, name this country whose film industry is based in Bangkok.

ANSWER: Thailand

11. Particularly old rocks in one section of this mountain range attract many geologists to areas like its Spearfish Canyon.
The George S. Mickelson Trail passes through this range that contains the third-longest cave in the world, known as Jewel
Cave. The geographic center of the United States is found in this range. Wind Cave is a national park in this mountain
range that is home to cities like Sturgis and Deadwood. Rapid City is the largest urban center in this range, which contains
Custer State Park. For the point, name this dark mountain range in South Dakota.

ANSWER: Black Hills
12. In 1972, this country’s prized statue of St. Merixtell was lost in a fire. This country’s Grandvalira ski resort can be
found near its town of Encamp. This country joined the United Nations in 1993, and a 2013 study found this country to
have the highest life expectancy on earth with 81 years. Joan-Enric (zhoe-AHN en-REEK) Vives i Sicília, the Bishop of
Urgell, is a ruler of this country along with Emmanuel Macron. Catalan is the official language of this country that is less
than 200 square miles in size. For the point, name this tiny nation in the Pyrenees sandwiched between France and Spain.

ANSWER: Andorra

13. A leading group of participants during this event is known as the Front Commission. The term Globeleza refers to the
coverage of this event by one of its country’s prominent networks. Blocos are smaller gatherings that occur during this
event, during which a tall, bulky man referred to as King Momo is tasked with leading it. Oscar Niemeyer designed the
most famous Sambadrome in which dance performances occur during this event. Celebrating the lead-up to the beginning
of Lent on Ash Wednesday, for the point, name this huge national festival that takes over cities like Rio de Janeiro.

ANSWER: Brazilian Carnaval

14. This region’s city of Kerrick is where Highway 287 enters its namesake state. 26 counties compose this region,
including Deaf (DEEF) Smith County, which contains the city of Hereford, the self-styled beef capital of the world. An
area known as the “Grand Canyon” of this region’s namesake state is known as Palo Duro and is fed by the Red River.
The eastern end of the Staked Plain runs down the middle of this region. Amarillo is the most-populous city in this region
that is found between New Mexico and Oklahoma. For the point, name this rectangular region in the northwest of a state
containing Houston.

ANSWER: Texas Panhandle

15. The city of Kpong contains one of these structures that works with a larger one that was built to assist its country’s
aluminum industry. The same country contains one of these structures in Bui National Park. The company Westcor
attempts to create the third in a series of these projects whose current structures are located within 150 miles of Kinshasa.
Those structures of this type are Inga I and Inga II. A failure of one of these projects led to the deaths of over 2000 people
in 1889 in Johnstown, Pennsylvania. The Akosombo structure of this type is served by the Volta River Authority. For the
point, name these infrastructure projects that restrict the flow of water.

ANSWER: dams

16. The act of feeding someone lovingly in this country is known as gursha. The singer Mahmoud Ahmed is a celebrity of
this country’s Gurage people. With a population of roughly 100 million, this nation is the most populous landlocked
country in the world and the Simien fox is a species native to this country’s namesake Highlands. Crop failures and
political unrest in the 1980’s under the Mengistu-led regime led to a famine here which the original Live Aid concert was
organized to help alleviate. The Blue Nile originates in this country that lies south of Eritrea. For the point, name this East
African country with capital at Addis Ababa.

ANSWER: Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia


17. This location’s western portion, known as Seagate, lies across Gravesend Bay from Bath Beach. One theory claims
that this location was named for the Dutch word for “rabbit” due to the abundance of rabbits on it. The original location of
Nathan’s Famous can be found here, which is also where frozen custard was invented. This location is now technically a
peninsula since landfill was used to connect it to the main portion of Long Island in the 1920’s and 30s. An annual
marine-themed celebration at this location is its Mermaid Parade and its major attractions include The Wonder Wheel and
The Cyclone. For the point, name this so-called island in New York known for its amusement parks.

ANSWER: Coney Island
18. A province that partly shares its name with this region contains an infrastructure system whose name translates to
“goose foot.” The Yser river flows through that system in this region. One of the five provinces to make up this region is
Limburg, which borders the Meuse River. A city in this non-Italian region contains a namesake Madonna by
Michelangelo and is famed for its castles. The Scheldt River flows through this region’s Antwerp province. Bruges is
found in and Brussels is surrounded by, for the point, what Dutch-speaking region of Belgium north of Wallonia?

ANSWER: Flanders (accept the Flemish Region of Belgium)

19. “The Golden Lion Welcoming His Guests” is one of the most distinctive natural rock formations found in this desert’s
Yadan National Geopark. The Shule River is one of several rivers that provides water to the oases of the Hexi Corridor to
the south of this desert. Among the five ecoregions of this desert is the Dzungarian Basin. The Uyghur language is spoken
in parts of this desert whose name translates to “place without water.” The so-called "Green Wall of China" is planned to
prevent the spread of this desert. Northeast of the Tibetan Plateau is, for the point, what large desert shared by China and
Mongolia?

ANSWER: Gobi Desert

20. Within a couple miles of this body of water lie the Ohalo archaeological sites, whose human findings date back to
roughly 20,000 years ago. The Headwater Diversion Plan was a proposed project to prevent several rivers from flowing
into this body of water in order to cut off its country’s water supply. The city of Capernaum on this body of water marks
the end of the “Jesus Trail” that tourists hike around it. The nearby Dead Sea is the only lake at a lower elevation than this
one. For the point, name this body of fresh water in Israel through which the Jordan River flows.

ANSWER: Sea of Galilee (accept Lake Tiberias, accept Lake/Sea (of) Kinneret)

21. The Tchefuncte River empties into this body of water, which is bounded to the north by the Northshore Region
containing cities like Abita Springs and Slidell. For its size, this is the youngest natural lake in the USA, having been
created 2500 to 4000 years ago by alluvial river deposits. The unincorporated city of Metairie lies on one of this body of
water. At over 23 miles, this body of water’s namesake causeway is the longest bridge in the United States. Located in
parts of six of its state’s parishes, for the point, name this largest lake in Louisiana.

ANSWER: Lake Ponchartrain

22. The Calderone (pr. CAL-dair-OH-nay) glacier is the only glacier in this mountain range and is predicted to disappear
in a few decades. The Marsican brown bear is sometimes named for this mountain range, whose Mount Fumaiolo is the
source of one of its primary rivers. This mountain range rises to just under 10,000 feet at its highest point at Corno Grande
(GRAN-day). The source of the Tiber River is found in this mountain range whose eastern slopes steeply descend
towards the Adriatic Sea. For the point, name this mountain range that dominates the Italian peninsula.

ANSWER: Apennines

23. A large three-day agriculturally themed fair on one island of this archipelago is known as the “Agrifest.” On
November 1, this archipelago has a public holiday known as Liberty Day. This archipelago’s Buck Island is a popular
nesting ground for leatherback turtles, which inspired the name of this archipelago’s Trunk Bay. Crown Mountain can be
found on this island chain originally known as the Danish West Indies. Its city of Charlotte Amalie is located on its island
of Saint Thomas. For the point, name this Caribbean archipelago that is divided between US and British control.

ANSWER: Virgin Islands (accept US Virgin Islands until “divided”, do not accept British Virgin Islands at all)
24. A site containing the Courtyard of the Altars is known primarily for a particularly large building of this type, which is
part of a complex containing one “of the Painted Skulls.” A seven-storied structure of this type is characterized by its
ornate niches and is known as “El Tajin.” According to myth, the god Itzamna used magic to raise an iconic structure of
this type in Uxmal. Cholula is home to a particularly large one of these buildings, a pair of which are devoted to the sun
and moon respectively in Teotihuacan. For the point, name these Mesoamerican structures that come in step varieties.

ANSWER: (step) pyramids

25. A technologically advanced region of this city that is being planned is its Future Scientists Street. Trout soup is a
popular dish in this city due to the abundance of the fish in the Taedong River which flows through it. Stations on this
city's two-line subway system are generally named for themes and ideas as opposed to locations. With a maximum
capacity of about 150,000 people, a stadium in this city is the largest in the world. A building sometimes named for the
fact that it has 105 floors is this city’s massive pyramid-shaped Ryugyong Hotel. An ideological monument in this city
dedicated to its country’s belief system is the Juche Tower. For the point, name this capital city of North Korea.

ANSWER: Pyongyang, North Korea

26. Post-1901 rifles erroneously stamped with the Victoria Regina cipher are an example of this region’s namesake copies
of weapons, which are made from local scrap metal. Rudyard Kipling used the analogy of a “sword cut” to describe this
feature. Landi Kotal marks one end of this region, whose entrance is near the city of Peshawar. Cutting through the Safed
Koh range, this feature is home to a large population of the Afridi Pashtun tribe. For the point, name this Hindu Kush
mountain pass providing a natural route for invaders and travelers between Pakistan and Afghanistan.

ANSWER: Khyber Pass

27. The oldest themed road in this region’s country is this region’s namesake “High Road” which ends in the town of
Freudenstadt. A hydroelectric plant is supplied by the Triberg Falls, which is a popular tourist spot in this region.
Schluchsee is one of the most popular lakes in this region which lies across a river valley from the Vosges (pr. VOAZH)
Mountains. The Feldberg is the highest peak in this region which lends its name to a cake containing chocolate with a
cherry filling. Located in Baden-Württemberg, for the point, name this mountainous region in Germany.

ANSWER: Black Forest (accept Schwarzwald)

28. Only about 5,000 speakers of Patua live in this territory where it was developed by a minority. The Amizade Bridge
crosses the Praia Grande Bay in this territory whose official currency is the Pataca. The Portas do Cerco contains a gate
separating this territory from its country’s mainland. Coloane and Taipa are the two central islands of this territory that
has a population density of over 20,000 people per square mile. The Cotai Arena is located in this territory’s Venetian
hotel where gambling is common. For the point, name this Chinese Special Administrative Region from which one can
take a catamaran to nearby Hong Kong.

ANSWER: Macau

29. Anthony Bourdain once said that the only version of this dish that he ever loved was made by Burt Katz. A former
college football star named Ike Sewell is sometimes seen as the originator of a type of this food which can be purchased
near Lincoln Park. Recipes from Turin inspired the Boglio brothers to sell a variety of this food at Giordano’s while Uno
restaurants have popularized this food throughout the USA. Sausage is the most common topping found in this ingredient
rather than pepperoni on its thinner crusted counterpart. For the point, name this iconic Italian-American food which
originated in a Midwestern city.

ANSWER: Chicago-style pizza (accept deep dish pizza; accept stuffed pizza; prompt on pizza alone)
30. The islands that make up this modern nation were home to Ratu Udre Udre, who is listed in the Guinness Book of
World Records as the most-prolific cannibal, having devoured over 800 people here. The second-largest island in this
nation was originally named after the sandalwood that was found to extensively grow on it. A body of water in the
western portion of this nation was named after the sea captain William Bligh who sailed through it. Ethnically, this nation
is predominantly Melanesian, though its dominant endemic language is of Polynesian origin. Tonga is found east of this
nation whose main island is Viti Levu. For the point, name this island nation with capital at Suva.

ANSWER: Republic of Fiji (accept Matanitu Tugalala o Viti)


31. In this state, the 50-mile-long Steens Mountain borders the Alvord Desert, which is in the particularly dry Harney
region of this state’s southeast. A popular ski resort in this state can be found on its Mount Bachelor. Food produced in
this state include cheese from Tillamook, wine from Yamhill County, and apples from the Hood River Valley. A body of
water in this state, formed from Mount Mazama, is home to a bobbing tree stump known as the “Old Man of the Lake”
and is the deepest lake in the United States. Its largest city is near the north end of the Willamette River and is named for a
city in Maine. Crater Lake and Portland can be found in, for the point, what state north of California?

ANSWER: Oregon

32. This country’s Serangoon Road is the main street in a section that was originally created to house convicts of its
dominant ethnicity. The residential area of Woodlands in this country is along the northern end of its Bukit Timah
Expressway. A causeway in this country connects to a neighboring country’s city of Johor Bahru whose Raffles hotel has
been undergoing recent renovations. A famous Little India is located in this country that outlaws the chewing of gum.
Piracy has been a major problem in the Strait of Malacca to the northwest of this country. For the point, name this
Southeast Asian city-state bordering Malaysia.

ANSWER: Singapore

33. In a work titled for these areas, Anastasia Loukaitou-Sideris examined their role as a “space of dissent” and “space of
economic survival.” In one work, these locations are described as a stage of an “intricate ballet in which the individual
dancers and ensembles all have distinctive parts.” In the aforementioned Death and Life of American Cities, Jane Jacobs
claims that these places are central to reducing crime in urban areas. Road verges, which typically feature vegetation, are
found between a roadway and one of these locations typically made of asphalt or concrete. For the point, name these
paved passages on the sides of streets.

ANSWER: sidewalks (accept pavement before “paved” is mentioned)


34. A ship named for this city was the first American vessel captured during the Second World War. This city’s Charles
Stewart Mott Foundation is a prominent charity named for one of its most successful businessmen and in 2017, this city’s
Sloan Museum opened an exhibit devoted to a 1930s sit-down strike in this city. The 1920s saw mass construction of
buildings in this city like its Genesee Towers. This city’s nickname of “Vehicle City” was partly inspired by it being the
site where General Motors was founded, while its native son Michael Moore has drawn attention to its post-industrial
decline. For the point, name this Michigan city that has recently dealt with a water poisoning crisis.

ANSWER: Flint, Michigan

35. Three of these locations in Sydney’s suburb of Rhodes were removed following residential complaints that escalated
to the point of water bomb attacks on their visitors. These locations are based on similar locations found in Ingress. Lure
Modules can be employed at these locations, which are indicated by a blue icon. The company Niantic developed these
locations, where items like Super Portion and Max Revive can be purchased and the XP players receive while playing
close to them increases. For the point, name these real-world locations that are integrated into Pokemon Go.

ANSWER: PokeStops (prompt on “locations in Pokemon Go”; don’t accept or prompt on “Pokemon Gyms”)
Extra Question:

Gerald Haug and Ralf Tiedemann argued that the creation of one landform of this type brought warmer and more saline
waters as well as greater moisture to the Northern Hemisphere. Tombolos are a sandy type of this feature, while cities
found on this type of landform include Auckland, New Zealand and Madison, Wisconsin. Lake Gatun is on another of
these landforms, and one of these in Mexico south of the Bay of Campeche (cam-PAY-chay) is named Tehuantepec.
Continental drift partly explains the creation of the landform of this type named for Panama. For the point, name these
narrow strips of land between two larger landmasses.

ANSWER: isthmus (accept Isthmus of Panama until “Madre” is mentioned)
