                    International Geography Bee: Playoff Round 2
Tournament                                                                                Room
                                                                                                                            Round          P2
 Moderator                                                Scorer




Student names (include                                                                                                                      Halftime
                           1    2   3    4   5    6   7    8   9   10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20
full name and school)                                                                                                                        Score




INSTRUCTIONS:
SCORING: For correct answers, place new running total in student’s row for the corresponding question. For negatives, place running total and circle
it. Cross out entire column if no score change. Make sure to place scores in the column for the correct question.
                    International Geography Bee: Playoff Round 2
Tournament                                                                                Room
                                                                                                                            Round          P2
 Moderator                                                Scorer




Student names (include                                                                                                                      Halftime
                           1    2   3    4   5    6   7    8   9   10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20
full name and school)                                                                                                                        Score




INSTRUCTIONS:
SCORING: For correct answers, place new running total in student’s row for the corresponding question. For negatives, place running total and circle
it. Cross out entire column if no score change. Make sure to place scores in the column for the correct question.
                    2018 International Geography Bee
              US Varsity & Junior Varsity National Championships

                                           FINALS
1. The mundu is a popular garment worn in this state that is home to a drive-in beach called
Muzhappilangad. The large amount of gold in this state’s Padmanabhaswamy Temple makes it
the wealthiest temple in the world. With 1,084 women per 1,000 men, this state has the highest
sex ratio in India. Lakshadweep is a union territory found off the coast of this state. The Malabar
region is found in this state that is southwest of Karnataka and west of Tamil Nadu. Malayalam is
widely spoken in, for the point, what state of southern India that contains Cochin?

ANSWER: Kerala (accept Keralam)

2. The Nassara Strip is a commercialized area in this city whose main movie theater is the
Cinema le Normandie. This city contains a national museum where the skull of the “Toumai”
hominid is housed. The Daza is the largest ethnic group in this capital city whose wealthy
European quarter is based around the Avenue Charles de Gaulle. The Logone Occidental Region
is just south of this city originally founded as Fort Lamy. With a name translating to “place of
rest” in French, this city can be found on the Chari River that flows into its country’s namesake
lake. For the point, name this capital city of Chad.

ANSWER: N’Djamena (accept Injamina)

3. Though not in Sweden, three stations on this transit system feature GoLibrary book vending
machines. In 1993, this transit system launched Translink, which was a forerunner to the Clipper
Card system now integrated into its turnstiles. Warm Springs and Richmond are among the
termini of this system. On one day in 2009, a then record of over 432,000 people rode this transit
system after the temporary closure of the Bay Bridge. Fremont and West Oakland are among the
stops along, for the point, what transit system in Northern California?

ANSWER: BART (accept Bay Area Rapid Transit)

4. Along with the Half Moon Caye, this feature is one of the two natural monuments within its
country’s only UNESCO World Heritage Site. Ned Middleton came up with the name of this
feature that was popularized by his book Ten Years Underwater. Located near the middle of
Lighthouse Reef, this feature reaches 407 feet in depth. Stalactites were found to be growing in
caves found in this feature that Jacques Cousteau labeled one of the finest SCUBA diving
locations on Earth. For the point, name this major tourist attraction in Belize.

ANSWER: Great Blue Hole
5. Near this country’s West Bay Lagoon, tens of billions of dollars have been spent developing its
planned Lusail City. The Dukhan field is a major source of oil for this country, which, though not
Japan, is home to an Inland Sea where pearl diving is popular. I.M. Pei designed the dhow-shaped
Museum of Islamic Art in this country, whose residents have the highest per capita income on
Earth. The media network Al-Jazeera is based in this country that, in 2022, will become the first
country in the Middle East to host the FIFA World Cup. For the point, name this small country
with capital at Doha.

ANSWER: State of Qatar (accept Dawlat Qatar)

6. A legend claimed that after Jesus ascended a mountain near this body of water he looked out
and said “beyond [it] there [is] nothing.” A folk song dedicated to this body of water refers to it as
a “glorious sea” and makes a reference to the winds that arise in the Barguzin range near it. The
nerpa is a species of seal that is endemic to this body of water. Submersibles from the Mir
program conducted geological studies of this body of water, which forms the western border of
Buryatia in Siberia. For the point, name this deepest lake on Earth, which is found in Russia.

ANSWER: Lake Baikal (accept Ozero Baykal)

7. A field named for showing this characteristic contains a popular windsurfing destination in its
country known as Lake Cerknika. The Skocjan Caves form a UNESCO world heritage site that
demonstrates the contact form of this phenomenon. This phenomenon also names a region
extending to the Gulf of Trieste in the northern Adriatic. A plateau that is named for its exhibition
of this phenomenon extends through Slovenia. This phenomenon can develop when rocks like
dolomite or limestone dissolve. Sinkholes are a common feature of, for the point, what German-
named type of topography?

ANSWER: Karst topography (accept Karst Plateau; accept karst field; accept karst polje;
accept contact karst)

8. Large float parades are held on this country’s holiday of Mashramani. This country’s Cuyuni-
Mazaruni region is home to the large Omai gold mine while the mining of the aluminum ore
bauxite drives the economy of this country’s city of Linden. This country’s flag depicts a red
triangle inside a yellow triangle against a green background with the two triangles having black
and white fimbriations respectively. The Essequibo River flows through this nation that is the
only English-speaking country in South America. Suriname is to the east of, for the point, what
country with capital at Georgetown.

ANSWER: Co-operative Republic of Guyana

9. This national park is the central subject of Donald Finkel’s poetry collection titled Answer
Back. Spanning over 50,000 acres, the majority of this national park is found in Edmonson
County. The Great Onyx is a feature within this national park that has been linked to the Flint
Ridge system. The Green River flows through this national park that is within fifty miles of
Bowling Green. Despite its name, this park has never shown evidence of containing the remains
of the “wooly” species of its namesake mammal. For the point, name this Kentucky national park
containing the longest cave system on Earth.

ANSWER: Mammoth Cave National Park
10. Maria Finucci spelled out the word “HELP” in a UNESCO-backed art installation that is
meant to create awareness about this region. Project Kaisei is a Japanese program focusing on this
region which Charles J. Moore supposedly discovered this region on his way back from a yacht
race. This region can be found in a gyre bound by the latitude lines of 0 and 50 degrees north.
This region composes up to 8% of the ocean in which it is found and roughly 10% of fish species
in this region are found to have plastic in them. For the point, name this large oceanic garbage
patch.

ANSWER: Great Pacific Garbage Patch (accept Eastern Pacific Garbage Patch; accept Pacific
trash vortex)

11. As part of a conflict over this region, ten thousand Cuban soldiers were sent to fight in the
Battle of Harar. In 2007 a raid on the Abole oil field that left 74 dead was conducted by this
region’s namesake “National Liberation Front.” The Battle of Jijiga was part of a conflict over
this region that began soon after the fall of the Derg. That 1970’s conflict over this region saw
Dire Dawa successfully defended from the invading army of Siad Barre. For the point, name this
contentious region that was the subject of a war between Ethiopia and Somalia.

ANSWER : Ogaden (accept Ogaadeen)

12. One of the wealthiest villages in this city’s metropolitan area has been jokingly called "All-
White-tukee" due to its high percentage of Caucasians. Copper, cattle, climate, cotton, and citrus
make up the informally named 5 Cs of this city’s economy. Superstition Mountain is a popular
hiking area around this city to which water is provided by the Salt River. The metropolitan area of
this city is often referred to as the Valley of the Sun. The seat of Maricopa County, this city is
roughly 100 miles northwest of Tucson. For the point, name this capital of Arizona.

ANSWER: Phoenix, Arizona

13. Ebenezer Creek is a tributary formed as this river passes through Effingham County. The
juncture where this river flows into the Atlantic Ocean is known as “Tybee Roads.” The Westo
Indians were the original namesakes of this river, which contains a dam named after Strom
Thurmond. The Talmadge Memorial Bridge passes over this river, which passes by the
Yamacraw Bluff that a colony was founded around. Lake Hartwell is the source of this river as
well as the Tugaloo that joins it. Augusta lies on, for the point, what river named for a city in
Georgia?

ANSWER: Savannah River

14. A type of tree native to this mountain range is known as Schrenk’s Spruce. This range is cut
across by the Boom Gorge. The border of Naryn province is found along this range’s Torugart
Pass, which contains the lake Chatyr-Kul. Jengish Chokusu is the highest peak in this mountain
range that is sometimes referred to as the “Heavenly Mountains.” Between this mountain range
and the Kunlun Mountains to the south lies the Tarim Basin. Urumqi and Bishkek are major cities
located around, for the point, what major mountain range of Central Asia?

ANSWER: Tian Shan Mountains (accept Tien Shan Mountains; Tengri Tagh; prompt on
“Heavenly Mountains” or similar answers before “Heavenly” is read)
15. This country’s desire for autonomy is reflected in its motto translating to “we want to remain
what we are.” The Red Lands are an iron-rich region of this country, which contains the
headquarters of the world’s largest steel producer, ArcelorMittal. The agreement allowing free
travel throughout the European Union was signed in this country’s town of Schengen.
Differdange is one of the largest cities in this country that is home to the Valley of the Seven
Castles. This country with a population of just under 600,000 is found to the southwest of
Belgium. For the point, name this small nation that is a Grand Duchy.

ANSWER: Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (accept Groussherzogtum Lëtzebuerg; accept Grand-
Duché de Luxembourg)

16. One end of the “Succulent” portion of this region contains the beach resort town of Lambert’s
Bay. The critically endangered riverine rabbit is native to certain portions of this region whose
former abundance of rye inspired the name of its Roggeveld Plateau. The Swartberg Mountains
divide this region into its namesake “Great” and “Little” subdivisions. With a name likely derived
from a Khoikoi word for “desert,” this region is south of Bushmanland, which separates it from
the Kalahari to its north. For the point, name this arid region of South Africa.

ANSWER: Karoo (accept Little Karoo; accept Great Karoo; accept Succulent Karoo)

17. A type of dress worn by this people called an atush was made out of the interior of elm trees.
A traditional marriage custom of this people involves the bride and groom each eating half of a
bowl of rice. A court case involving an infrastructural project along the Saru River was the first to
recognize this people as indigenous to their native country. A ritual associated with this people
called Iyomante involves capturing an animal while it is still in hibernation to prepare it for
slaughter. Known for practicing a form of bear sacrifice, for the point, name this ethnic group that
is indigenous to the Kurile Islands and is largely found in Hokkaido.

ANSWER: Ainu people (accept Ajnu people)

18. Sport climbing is a popular pastime in this city’s La Huasteca Park. The Jewish influence on
this North American city can be found in a regional goat-based dish known as cabrito. Saddle
Mountain overlooks this city that the Santa Lucia river walk can be found in. The Lighthouse of
Commerce is known for lighting up this city at night with a green laser. This city contains the
Macroplaza, which is the largest plaza in its country. Found in the province of Nuevo Leon, for
the point, name this city that forms Mexico’s third largest metropolitan area.

ANSWER: Monterrey, Mexico

19. In the 1840s, a tax on candles was created to fund the creation of this region’s schools.
“Cantonists” were notably excluded from the laws of this region from which they were often
kidnapped as children. Regions like Courland and Astrakhan were removed from this region
under the reign of Nicholas I. The 1881 May Laws led to strict enforcement of this region’s
central policy. This entity that was created in 1791 by a decree of Catherine the Great helped give
rise to shtetl culture. For the point, name this region in Imperial Russia that Jews were historically
restricted to.

ASWER: Pale of Settlement (accept chertá osédlosti; accept der tkhum-ha-moyshev; accept
tẖum hammosháv)
20. The Wood Islands Ferry is a popular alternative to this bridge whose 1997 completion was
celebrated with a flyover by the Snowbirds. This bridge was built over a narrow area called the
Abegweit Passage. A visiting head of state once referred to this bridge as the “Span of Green
Gables.” An effect of the completion of this bridge has been increased tourism to Moncton on its
mainland side, as in named for the union created at the Charlottetown Conference near its other
end. Crossing the Northumberland Strait, for the point, name this bridge connecting Prince
Edward Island to New Brunswick.

ANSWER: Confederation Bridge (accept Fixed Link; prompt on generic answers about a bridge
connecting Prince Edward Island to New Brunswick)

21. Taking a right off Leppy Pass Road leads to the access road to this region. In 2015, reports
surfaced that extensive potash mining decreased the thickness of this region from roughly two
feet to around two inches, making it unsafe for one of its most popular activities. The western
border of this region is formed by the town of West Wendover, which is the only municipality to
observe Mountain Time in Nevada. 1914 marked the first time a land speed record was obtained
in this region’s namesake “Speedway.” For the point, name this region west of the Great Salt
Lake that is particularly level.

ANSWER: Bonneville Salt Flats (accept Bonneville Speedway)

22. The ftrMetro (F-T-R-Metro) bus system is a major public transit system in this city whose
namesake bay contains a headland called Mumbles. The “Salubrious Passage” is a portion of this
city’s Wind Street that is known for its pubs. The Gower Peninsula is located within the urban
area of this city, which is nicknamed “Copperopolis.” A prominent venue for the performing arts
in this city is its Dylan Thomas Theatre. Found within Glamorgan County, this city is the second
most-populous in its native constituent country, trailing Cardiff. For the point, name this Welsh
city.

ANSWER: City and County of Swansea, Wales (accept Dinas a Sir Abertawe)

23. Bombs are developed for the US Military at this state’s Picatinny Arsenal while its other
military installations have included McGuire Air Force Base in its Burlington County, which was
combined with Fort Dix. Bridges that enter this state from the west include the Walt Whitman
Bridge and one that brags that what its capital "makes, the world takes." This state's Pine Barrens
are legendarily home to a wyvern-like creature, its state's namesake Devil, and former
establishments in this state include Trump Marina and the Revel Casino. Those places were in the
struggling resort of Atlantic City on its namesake shore. For the point, name this mid-Atlantic
state with capital at Trenton.

ANSWER: New Jersey

24. A type of holiday cake native to this state that is often decorated with colorful patterns is
known as kek lapis. A cultural village around this state’s Mount Santubong is the location of its
annual Rainforest World Music Festival. The largest hydroelectric dam in this state’s native
country is built along its Rajang River. The largest known underground chamber on Earth is
named for this state and can be found in its Gunung Mulu National Park. Found north of another
country’s Kalimantan region, this state is located in the northwest of Borneo. For the point, name
this largest Malaysian state, which borders Sabah.

ANSWER: Sarawak
25. The protagonist of a literary work partly titled for this body of water was allegedly based on
two soldiers from a town lying on it called Veshenskaya. That book was notably cleared of
plagiarism accusations by Pravda. Grigori Melekhov is the central character of a novel that
describes the life of a Cossack family that lives in the valley of this body of water. A Mikhail
Sholokhov novel titled after this river which empties into the Sea of Azov is named for its “quiet
flow.” For the point, name this fifth-longest European river whose tributaries include the Donets.

ANSWER: Don River

26. The Three Brothers River flows through this region that contains the city of Corumba. To the
west of this region, the Chiquitano dry forests can be found. Apple snails are a keystone species
in this region where the abundance of the yacare caiman suggests it has the highest population of
crocodilians on Earth. Largely concentrated within the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, this region is
roughly 80% submerged during the rainy season. Parts of Bolivia, Paraguay and Brazil comprise,
for the point, what South American wetland region?

ANSWER: Pantanal

27. An 1837 massacre prompted the creation of one of these systems called the “Ngatik Men’s”
type. The word “blong” is commonly employed by a system of this type that was used in the
creation of the anthem “Yumi, Yumi, Yumi.” In cities like Port Vila, one could frequently hear a
type of this system called Bislama. Urban areas in Papua New Guinea often employ a system of
this type known as Tok Pisin, which has German and Melanesian influences. Having a greater
complexity than a pidgin, for the point, name this type of language formed by mixing elements
from other languages.

ANSWER: creole languages (accept creoles and other word forms, prompt on language until
"pidgin")

28. Joshua Pilcher provided the contemporary name for this formation, which travellers would
often refer to as “Elk Peak.” This formation is depicted in a 2006 state quarter that shows a
carriage passing around it. Found in Morrill County, this formation is largely made up of Brule
clay. This formation is connected by its state’s Highway 92 to another of its state’s attractions
known as Scotts Bluff. Extending several hundred feet above the North Platte River, for the point,
name this prominent formation along the Oregon Trail and National Historic Site in Nebraska.

ANSWER: Chimney Rock National Historic Site

29. The architectural firm Heneghan Peng designed this area’s Visitors’ Centre. Found a couple
miles north of the town of Bushmills, this area’s major attractions include the Chimney Stacks
and the Camel’s Hump. Most of the central features in this area take a hexagonal shape, with
notable exceptions including its namesake’s circular “eyes.” Found in the County Antrim, this
area was legendarily created as a bridge that would allow Finn McCool to reach Scotland without
touching the water. For the point, name this area lined with basalt columns in Northern Ireland.

ANSWER: Giant’s Causeway
30. This region’s namesake national park is divided by the Ugab River Gate. Plans to build a
railway region to this region’s Cape Fria have never materialized. The mixing of the Benguela
Current’s air with that of the warm land air around this region are thought to contribute to this
region’s reputation. This region is bounded by the Swakop River to the south and the Kunene
River to the north. The remains of the Dunedin Star can be found along this region, which was
known as “the Gates of Hell” to Portuguese sailors. For the point, name this notorious region of
the Namib Desert along the Atlantic Ocean.

ANSWER: Skeleton Coast (prompt on Namib Desert)

31. The airline Par-Avion is based in this state where fisherman often visit the city of Strahan.
This state’s Hellyer Gorge can be passed by road via the Murchison Highway. Maria Island is off
the coast of this state that is home to Savage River National Park. The species Sarcophilus
harrisii is native to this state that the Derwent River flows through. The city of Launceston can be
found on this state, which was home to its country’s largest carnivorous marsupial until 1936
when said animal went extinct. The thylacine was alternatively named the tiger of, for the point,
what Australian island state with capital at Hobart?

ANSWER: Tasmania (accept Tas; accept Tassie)

32. An October festival most prominently celebrated on this island that involves tongue slashing
celebrates one of its communities’ adherence to vegetarianism. The Two Heroines Monument on
this island’s seal is dedicated to a pair of non-Vietnamese sisters who protected this island from
one invasion. The Sansin Bridge connects the mainland to this island, whose name is derived
from a Malay word translating to “hill”. Paradise Complex and Bangla Road are two of the
popular nightlife destinations in this island’s town of Patong. For the point, name this largest
island belonging to Thailand.

ANSWER: Phuket

33. The chef of this city’s restaurant Daotai Fu originated the Guo Bao Rou variation on sweet
and sour pork. The Church of St. Sophia is a popular site in this city that lies on the Songhua
River. Yilan County is under the jurisdiction of this city that is home to one of the largest tiger
parks in China. The Crystal Castle is one of the most famous carvings created in this city where
massive sculptures created during its Ice and Snow Festival. This capital of Heilongjiang once
belonged to nearby Russia. For the point, name this major city in the northeast of China.

ANSWER: Harbin, China

34. This body of water’s Bulla Island is home to deposits of the mineral akdalaite. The Ryn-Peski
Desert is to the north of this body of water whose longest island is Ogurja Ada. Among the cities
on this body of water’s western shore is Makhachkala, whose largest ethnic population are the
Avar people. WikiLeaks discovered that in 2008, BP covered up an oil leak in this body of
water’s Azeri-Chirag-Guneshi area. A lagoon connected to this sea is known as Kara-Bogaz-Gol.
Baku lies on this body of water that is fed by the Ural River. For the point, name this largest lake
on Earth.

ANSWER: Caspian Sea
35. Archibald Menzies was the first known man to summit this mountain, which he accomplished
in 1794. The Ainapo Trail is the most common route to the top of this mountain. An 1859
eruption of this volcano destroyed the rock walls surrounding Kiholo bay. A namesake solar
observatory can be found on this volcano, whose summit is known as Mokuaweoweo. By area
covered, this is the largest volcano in the world, but its peak is 30 meters shorter than another on
the same island as it. For the point, name this Hawaiian volcano that is slightly shorter than
Mauna Kea.

ANSWER: Mauna Loa (accept Long Mountain)

Tiebreakers

36. A popular annual food festival in this city is its Fressgass Fest. This city’s Stadtwald is the
largest urban forest in its country and among the largest in the world. The largest motor show in
the world is held in this city. In 1929, the opera Carmina Burana premiered in this city’s Alte
Oper. A regional apple wine is a native delicacy commonly sold in this city’s Sachsenhausen
area. This city’s Eiserner Steg is a pedestrian bridge crossing the Main River, which flows
through it. The Börse is the stock exchange of, for the point, what financial hub of Germany?

ANSWER: Frankfurt am Main, Germany (accept Frankfurt on the Main)


37. Roughly 5% of one island in this country is afflicted with a rare optical disease known as
achromatopsia. The Chuukese are the primary ethnic group of this nation that contains the eastern
portion of the Caroline Islands. Calcite stones with a hole in the middle serve as the currency on
this nation’s island of Yap. Kosrae and Ponhpei are two of the four states of this nation whose
main municipality is Weno. With a name translating in Greek to “small islands,” for the point,
name this island nation in Oceania with capital at Palikir.

ANSWER: Federated States of Micronesia (accept FSM)

38. Fort Mann was a settlement originally created on the site of what is now this city that serves
as the seat of Ford County. Buffalo meat was brought to this city along the Jones Plummer Trail,
of which it was a terminus. In 1879, Frank Loving and Levi Richardson engaged in a famous
gunfight at this city’s Long Branch Saloon. Bat Masterson served as a sheriff of this city, which is
where Wyatt Earp served as assistant marshall. Home to the Boot Hill Museum, for the point,
name this city in Kansas that was one of the most prominent frontier towns in the Wild West.

ANSWER: Dodge City, Kansas

39. An annual carnival sees competitors in an improvised form of this musical genre compete for
the title of Extempo Monarch. One of the pioneers of this genre of music was Lord Invader, who
was born in the city of San Fernando. Disney’s “Under the Sea” incorporated elements of this
genre that was popularized internationally thanks to the “Banana Boat Song.” “Rum and Coca-
Cola” was a popular hit in this genre, to which elements of soul were added in order to create
soca. For the point, name this Caribbean music genre that originated in Trinidad and Tobago.

ANSWER: calypso music
40. This country’s Baritu National Park is home to a population of particularly large cedrela trees.
The Laguna del Carbon in this country is the lowest point in the western hemisphere. Though not
Taiwan, the northern province of Formosa is found in this country whose capital is served by
Ezeiza Airport. The Casa Rosada is the house of government in this country’s capital, whose
summers are home to storms caused by the pampero winds. The Falkland Current blows along,
for the point, what second-largest country in South America?

ANSWER: Republica Argentina (accept Argentine Republic)

41. The Leland Stanford Mansion State Historic Park is in this city whose major employers
include Sutter Health. A university in this city’s metropolitan area recently opened the Robert
Mondavi Institute for Wine and Food Science and is located in Yolo County. The aforementioned
school is the University of California Davis. The San Joaquin River forms a delta with a river that
shares its name with this city. Found in the Central Valley, for the point, name this capital of
California.

ANSWER: Sacramento, California

42. William Hillary built a Tower of Refuge on this island for shipwrecked sailors to stay in as
they awaited rescue. A World War II airfield on this island that is now used for motorcycle racing
is found in Jurby. In 1974, Ned Madrell’s death marked the extinction of native speakers of this
island’s namesake language. A symbol representing this island’s stability shows three legs joined
at the thigh. Douglas is the capital of this island that the sea god Mannanan is said to watch over.
For the point, name this island between Ireland and Great Britain.

ANSWER: Isle of Man
