                               International Geography Bee: Round 2
Tournament                                                                                Room                                        Division
                                                                                                                    Round        2                V JV
 Moderator                                                          Scorer                                                           (circle 1)




Student names (include                                                                                                 Final
                       1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35
full name and school)                                                                                                  score




Total pts for reaching +8          15 points            14     13      12 pts      11 points        10 points         9 points           8 points
INSTRUCTIONS:
SCORING: For correct answers, place new running total in student’s row for the corresponding question. For -1’s (3 rd incorrect interrupt), place running
total and circle it. Cross out entire column if no score change. Make sure to place scores in the column for the correct question.
REACHING +8: Remove student from round. In “Final score” column, place student’s total score (refer to the bottom row for the question on which +8
was reached). Cross out remainder of student’s row.
END OF ROUND: In “Final score” column, place final score for students not reaching +8 (may be negative).
                              2018 International Geography Bee
                       US Varsity & Junior Varsity National Championships

                                                     Round 2

1. On this island, an attempt to kidnap a man named Tiata inspired the name of its Cape Kidnappers. The cities of
Napier and Hastings make up the Bay Cities of this island for their location around Hawke’s Bay. The Heretaunga
Plains can be found on this most-populous island of its country, that is home to a namesake species of bird that
lays the largest eggs in relation to its body size. This island is to the north of the Cook Strait and is bounded to the
west by the Tasman Sea. A species of kiwi bird is native to, for the point, what island which contains Wellington,
New Zealand, which is closer to the Equator than its country's other main island?

ANSWER: North Island

2. This mountain range is home to an annual 75-kilometer race known as the Giants Challenge. Only 4x4 [4 by 4]
vehicles are allowed to travel across this mountain range’s dangerous Sani Pass. The tallest peak in this mountain
range has a name translating to “beautiful little mountain” and is natively called Thabana Ntlenyana. This range is
the source of the Tugela and Orange Rivers. This range passes through the province of Eastern Cape and is to the
north of the Cape of Good Hope. For the point, name this main mountain range of southern Africa.

ANSWER: Drakensberg Mountains (accept Drakensbergs; accept Drakensberg escarpment; prompt on Dragon
Mountain)

3. Timothy Pauketat and Thomas Emerson rejected the idea that this site engaged in mercantilism. The placement
of poles to mark solstices and equinoxes led part of this site to be referred to as “an American Woodhenge.” This
site is found in a riparian area known as the American Bottom and the Monks Mound is one of its prominent
features. This site is separated from St. Louis by a river that shares its name with the culture that settled here. For
the point, name this site once inhabited by the Mississippian culture.

ANSWER: Cahokia

4. The Benetton Group has come under fire for purchasing land in this region that has historically belonged to one
of its major indigenous peoples. Bruce Chatwin’s first book focuses on his journey to this region and is titled “In”
it. Ruptures in one feature of this region routinely cause the damming of the Brazo Rico; that feature is the Perito
Moreno Glacier. A phenomenon known as Araucanization occurred as the Mapuche migrated to this region. The
Tierra del Fuego is considered part of, for the point, what region containing parts of Chile and Argentina?

ANSWER: Patagonia (prompt on Argentina or South America during first two lines only)
5. Shopping areas in this city include the Third Street Promenade and the western end of Wilshire Boulevard.
This city is bordered by Venice on the south and the neighborhood of Pacific Palisades on the north along State
Highway 1. This city was connected to its metro area's rail system when the Expo Line was extended here in
2016. This city's most famous structure is at the foot of Colorado Avenue and includes an amusement park,
Pacific Park. For the point, name this Southern California beach city located west of Los Angeles with a world
famous pier, the endpoint to Interstate 10 and historic Route 66.

ANSWER: Santa Monica, California

6. A 10-year old girl named Havivra Da Ifrile survived this event by rowing a boat to the safety of a cave. This
was the only naturally occurring event that was the subject of one of George Melies’ “reconstructed newsreels.”
This event resulted in the filling of the Étang Sec crater. American vessels from Puerto Rico and Santo Domingo
were dispatched to deal with this 1902 event whose central feature was described as “a giant oil refinery” during
it. The city of Saint-Pierre was devastated by the pyroclastic flows of this event. For the point, name this eruption
that affected Martinique.

ANSWER: eruption of Mount (or Mont) Pelee

7. Point Partridge is located in the largest island in this body of water, where Chum salmon populations have been
dwindling around its Hood Canal. A ferry service takes passengers from the eastern shore of this body of water to
the Kitsap Peninsula. Whidbey Island is the main island in this body of water that is fed by the Nisqually River.
The Admiralty Inlet connects the Strait of Juan de Fuca to this body of water that is bordered by the Olympic
Peninsula. For the point, name this inlet of the Pacific Ocean found along the coast of northwestern Washington.

ANSWER: Puget Sound

8. The first ascent of this mountain was completed by a team led by Charles Barrington. Early attempts to ascend
a portion of this mountain were the subject of the book The White Spider. Mönch is the parent peak of this
mountain, inside of which are stations of the Jungfrau Railway. The large number of casualties on one part of this
mountain has led that portion to be given a nickname translating to “Murderous Wall.” Along with the Grandes
Jorasses (pr. grahn zhor-AHSS) and the Matterhorn, this mountain contains one of the three great north faces of
the Alps. For the point, name this mountain in the canton of Bern, Switzerland.

ANSWER: the Eiger

9. A measure of the resistance of this phenomenon’s central bodies to its occurrence is known as the Revelle
factor. During the Paleocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum, this phenomenon was considered a leading cause of
foraminifera dissolution in the benthic zone. The head of NOAA (pronounce as “Noah”) has referred to this
problem as the “equally evil twin” of global warming. Resulting from the increase in hydrogen ions brought about
by carbon dioxide absorption, for the point, name this phenomenon by which the pH of bodies like the Pacific and
Atlantic decreases.

ANSWER: ocean acidification (accept answers that indicate increases in carbon dioxide levels in oceans;
prompt on more broad answers that do not specifically include “oceans”; prompt on climate change)

10. Dean Potter lost a clothing sponsorship after climbing one feature at this national park. Alexander Ringhoffer
proposed the conservation of the area that became this national park and proposed the name "Devil's Garden" for
a region in its portion of Salt Valley. Herbert Hoover invoked the Antiquities Act to protect the namesake features
of this national park located in the city of Moab. Petroglyphs of the Ute tribe can be found at, for the point, what
Utah national park known for its namesake sandstone rock formations?

Answer: Arches National Park
11. A legend claims that a princess named Wanda drowned herself in this river to prevent one man’s army from
invading her country. A tributary of this river that is one of the few non-Italian braided rivers of Europe is the
Narew (pr. NAH-rev). This river is the namesake of a so-called “Miracle” that saw the defeat of Mikhail
Tukhachevsky’s forces in 1920. Barania Góra is the source of this river that rises in the Beskid subrange named
after Silesia. A sandspit separates this river’s namesake lagoon from Gdansk Bay. For the point, name this main
river of Poland.

ANSWER: Vistula River

12. An island in this east of this body of water contains a dormant volcano named after the Earl of Edgecumbe. In
1958, a megatsunami with the highest-ever recorded tidal wave hit this body of water’s Lituya Bay. The
Alexander Archipelago can be found on the eastern end of this body of water. The Cook Inlet is separated from
this body of water by the Kenai Peninsula while Shelikof Strait separates the mainland of this body of water’s
namesake state from Kodiak Island. For the point, name this gulf south of a namesake state containing Anchorage
and Juneau.

ANSWER: Gulf of Alaska

13. The Sea Gate marks the entrance into this city’s famous medina quarter and the primary port of this city, La
Goulette, contains its Kasbah. The remains of the shipwreck off Mahdia can be found in this city’s Bardo
National Museum. A street in this capital city that is sometimes referred to as its nation’s “Champs-Elysées” is the
Avenue Habib Bourguiba. Major suburbs of this city include Sidi Bou Said, and a city where Punic archeological
sites can be found, Carthage. For the point, name this capital city of Tunisia.

ANSWER: Tunis, Tunisia

14. John Hardcastle found how deposits of this substance in Timaru could be used to infer past climatological
trends in the Southern Alps. The term for this material was first used by German peasants to describe parts of the
Rhine Valley in the 1820s. A region named for this substance is found around the Wei River and comprises most
of the province of Shanxi. That plateau was named for this substance partly due to its spreading after floods
around the Yellow River. For the point, name this silt-containing sediment formed by wind-carried dust particles.

ANSWER: loess

15. Nag’s Ridge is a popular tourist destination in this archipelago for visitors to the large sand dunes on its
Jockey’s Ridge State Park. Declines in the whaling industry of this archipelago led many of its inhabitants to
emigrate from its Cape Lookout. Parts of Dare County are located on this archipelago that borders Albemarle
Sound. Ocracoke Island is part of this archipelago whose settlement of Kill Devil Hills, rather than its town of
Kitty Hawk, was the actual site of the Wright brothers’ first flight. For the point, name this island chain off the
coast of North Carolina.

ANSWER: Outer Banks

16. In 2015, a Philadelphia-based company named Indego began a service relying on the sharing of these objects.
Over 500 million of the Flying Pigeon types of these objects have been sold in China. SF2G is a program that
involves Google employees using these vehicles. The Great Divide Trail in the Canadian Rockies contains a
popular route designed for one subtype of these vehicles. In the Netherlands, there are three times more of these
vehicles than cars. Often used in velodromes, for the point, name these two-wheeled vehicles.

ANSWER: Bicycles
17. Members of this country’s Bedick peoples are concentrated in Bandafassi. A Sufi order known as the Mouride
brotherhood is headquartered in one of this country’s holiest cities. Ethnic Jolas of Christian faith have led
separatist movements in this country’s Casamance region. Touba is found in this country, which is home to the
largest populations of the Serer people and Wolof peoples. French is the main language of this Muslim-majority
nation southwest of Mauretania. For the point, name this West African country with capital at Dakar.

ANSWER: Senegal


18. Tens of thousands of people take advantage of the free parking along this city’s Storrow Drive when preparing
to watch its Fourth of July celebrations at the Hatch Shell. This city’s Shawmut Peninsula is home to a
particularly wealthy neighborhood called Beacon Hill where many of this city’s cultural and business elite, known
as its Brahmins, have lived. This city’s Public Garden is one of many parks in its portion of the Emerald Necklace
and Victorian architecture can be seen along this city’s Back Bay. The Charles River flows through, for the point,
what most-populous city in Massachusetts?

ANSWER: Boston, Massachusetts

19. This country’s Paramillo (pa-ra-MEE-oh) Massif is one end of what are perhaps the most distant intervisible
points in the world. Over 500 kilometers away, this country’s Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta forms the other such
point. This is the only South American country that is part of the six emerging markets labeled CIVETS and this
country is home to more bird species than any other. Vaupes and Boyaca are among the departments of this
country which also contains the Magdalena River Valley. Ecuador and Peru are both to the southwest of, for the
point, what country containing cities like Medellin and Bogotá?

ANSWER: Colombia

20. One station on this transit system is only open on August 4 and August 5 for an annual festival. Vending
machines belonging to the company “Seventeen Ice” operate on platforms of this transit system. Cars in this
transit system are labeled A1 through A12 and are monitored by blue-uniformed members of its so-called “task
force”. During peak hours “pushers” ensure maximum occupancy in this system’s cars. Above 3.5 million of the 8
million daily users of this transit system pass through its Shinjuku station. For the point, name this rail transit
system that is being upgraded in advance of the 2020 Summer Olympics in Japan’s capital.

ANSWER: Tokyo Subway (accept Tokyo Metro; accept Tokyo no chikatetsu)

21. A northern region of this desert known for its red sand is the Nefud and a lengthy canyon system in this desert
is known as the Tuwaiq escarpment. British adventurer Wilfred Thesiger crossed a remote portion of this desert in
the 20th century, and also explored its Umm al Samim quicksand area. A particularly dry 650,000 square
kilometer portion of this desert is known as the Empty Quarter or Rub-al-Khali. For the point, name this desert
sharing its name with a Middle Eastern peninsula.

ANSWER: Arabian Desert (antiprompt on “Rub-al-Khali” before its mention by saying “Be less specific”)

22. This city contains a set of ancient human footprints at Acahualinca. The Tiscapa Lagoon can be found in this
city that is located on the southern bank of Lake Xolotlan (pr. SHO-lote-lan). The Catedral de Santiago is found
in this city whose commercial area is located around its Plaza de la Revolución. One of the few large buildings
left relatively unscathed after a 1972 earthquake in this city was its Ruben Dario National Theater. The San Juan
River links a lake named for this city to a larger one named for the country it is the capital of. An airport named
after Augusto Sandino serves, for the point, what capital of Nicaragua?

ANSWER: Managua, Nicaragua
23. In 1896, Franz Steindachner provided the taxonomic name to the only known specimen of this river’s
namesake shark ever found. The Taping is the first tributary of this river, which passes through Bhamo near a
locale nicknamed “Dolphin Point.” Over $3 billion dollars have been allocated for the now-suspended Myitsone
Dam on this river. This river begins at the confluence of the Mali and N’mai Rivers and flows into the Andaman
Sea. A British poem inspired the nicknaming of this river as “the Road to Mandalay.” For the point, name this
river that flows through Myanmar.

ANSWER: Irrawaddy River

24. One city on this island is home to the headquarters of the major conglomerate Novo Holdings A/S while one
of this island’s UNESCO World Heritage sites is the white Cliffs of Stevns. A castle which takes its Anglicized
name from the town of Helsingør on this island, was used by Shakespeare as the main setting for Hamlet. The
Great Belt Fixed Link helps separate this island from Funen, and Roskilde on this island is home to one of
Europe’s largest music festivals. The Skagerrak is north of this island, whose main city contains the Tivoli
Gardens and the Christiansborg Palace. For the point, name this largest island of Denmark.

ANSWER: Zealand (or Sjælland)

25. Tall rhododendrons provide a scenic quality to this state’s Roan Highlands. The only fishery licensed to
harvest a sunfish species known as the crappie is found along this state’s Reelfoot Lake. Uriah Stone was the
namesake for a river in this state where a Civil War battle was fought that is sometimes named the Battle of
Murfreesboro. This state’s Sevier County is home to a theme park known as Dollywood, which is located near its
town of Gatlinburg. Jack Daniel’s is a whiskey produced in this state that holds a weekly concert known as the
Grand Ole Opry. For the point, name this state where country music thrives in Nashville.

ANSWER: Tennessee

26. In this country, the Alertness Movement refers to a particularly violent form of one of its musical genres. The
Sinfonia India was composed by a man from this country, which uses instruments of its native Yaqui people. A
five stringed instrument called the vihuela is used in a popular ensemble in this country supposedly named for its
common appearance at weddings. “La Cucaracha” was a famous example of a folk ballad performed in this
country known as the corrido. For the point, name this Spanish-speaking country home to mariachi bands.

ANSWER: Mexico

27. The Tavan Bogd massif in this country is home to its highest point of Khuiten Peak. A term for severe winter
storms in this country that results in mass deaths of livestock is zud. The capital of this country has the lowest
average temperature of any national capital; that capital city of this country has a name that translates to “Red
Hero.” With a population of 1.9 people per square kilometer, this is the least dense country in the world. An
autonomous region of China partly shares its name with this country. For the point, name this country whose main
ethnic group was once ruled by Genghis Khan.

ANSWER: Mongolia
28. Though not in California, Napa Valley’s Emil Tedeschi established a namesake winery on this island that was
its state’s first. Heiau temples are some of the archaeological findings around this American island’s La Perouse
Bay. Charles Lindbergh is buried on the eastern reaches of this island near the town of Hana while the Iao Valley
and the resort town of Lahaina are on its western side. Nicknamed the “Valley Isle” this island is dominated by a
shield volcano known as Haleakala (pr. hah-lay-AH-kah-lah). Kanaha Beach Park and Honolua Bay are popular
surfing destinations on, for the point, what Hawaiian island that shares its name with a trickster deity?

ANSWER: Maui

29. The Chinese government has planned to build a naval base on this body of water’s city of Obock. The eastern
terminus of this body of water is marked by Cape Guardafui. The Shamshan Mountains pass through a governate
that shares its name with this body of water. Djibouti is to the west of this body of water that was formerly named
for a city along it called Berbera. The Bab el-Mandeb to the northwest of this body of water connects it to the Red
Sea. Found north of Somaliland, for the point, name this gulf that shares its name with a city in Yemen.

ANSWER: Gulf of Aden

30. Sites like Mini Hollywood in this region’s Tabernas Desert were used in western films including several of
Sergio Leone’s. A group of intermontane valleys in this region make up its Intrabaetic Basin. A cathedral found in
the capital of this region contains the tomb in which Christopher Columbus is buried. The Sierra Morena
Mountains separate this region from Extremadura. The Guadalquivir River flows through this region, whose eight
provinces include Cádiz (pr. cah-DEETH) and Granada. For the point, Seville is located in what region of
southern Spain?

ANSWER: Andalusia (prompt on Spain or Iberia until "capital")

31. An 1879 riot broke out at one of these locations in Sydney after a controversial decision by George Coulthard.
A building that was originally built for this purpose is nicknamed “the G” and is located in Melbourne. S.K.
Wankhede names one of these venues which saw Kumar Sangakkara’s team lose to that of Mahendra Singh
Dhoni in 2011. The Oval and Lord’s are two prominent venues of this type in London, the latter of which holds
the urn representing the Ashes test match series. For the point, name these locations where a sport that involves
wickets is played.

ANSWER: cricket stadiums (accept cricket grounds or answers that indicate where cricket occurs)

32. The creation of this province’s Kenney Dam led to the displacement of hundreds of Cheslatta T'En people. A
sudden narrowing of a river that flows through this province is known as Hells Gate. A city in this province
contains the Burrard Street Bridge and is served by the transportation system SkyTrain. The Coast Mountains are
on the western end of this province containing the Fraser Plateau. The Strait of Georgia separates the mainland of
this province from an island that shares its name with its most-populous city. For the point, name this Canadian
province containing Vancouver.

ANSWER: British Columbia

33. The district of Jalainur is home to a scale model of this building, whose ninth church allegedly sprang
miraculously on the day of its consecration. Saint Gregory of Armenia is the dedicatee of one the chapels in this
building. Biblical descriptions of heaven in the Book of Revelation inspired the rich color scheme of this building
that was once known as Pokrovsky Sobor. Built from 1555 to 1561, this building contains several onion-shaped
domes. Found in Red Square, for the point, name this Moscow cathedral.

ANSWER: St. Basil’s Cathedral
34. In 2013, one nation withdrew troops from the Depsang Bulge along a portion of this border. The Daulat Beg
Oldi site is one of five sanctioned meeting points along this border and is located in the region of Ladakh. The
Line of Actual Control and the McMahon Line are among the boundaries that encompass this border, which was
the center of a dispute when parts of the Aksai Chin region on one side were used to build a highway connecting
Tibet to Xinjiang. For the point, name this border between the two most-populous countries on Earth.

ANSWER: China-India Border (accept Line of Actual Control before mentioned; accept Sino-Indian Border;
accept Indo-Chinese border)

35. This mountain’s namesake state park also contains other tall peaks like Balsam Cone and Mount Hallback.
Camp Alice is found on this peak in Yancey County that is the highest in the Black Mountain sub range. A 102-
mile long cycling race ending on this peak begins at Spartanburg and is called the “Assault on” it. This mountain
is named after a professor who died while taking measurements of its height. Found near Asheville in North
Carolina, for the point, name this tallest peak in the Appalachian Mountains.

ANSWER: Mount Mitchell


Extra Question:
Until 2017, Mellow Yellow was a particularly old locale selling this good that was closed due to its proximity to a
school. In 2008, a wiettop found that over 80% of mayors supported legal establishments that sold this good
known as coffee shops. Only those who live within 150 kilometers of establishments where this good is sold can
legally purchase it in Maastricht. An annual competition focusing on this good gives out an award for best
Nederhash. For the point, name this good that has contributed to Amsterdam’s drug tourism.

ANSWER: cannabis (accept marijuana; accept weed; accept pot)
