                    International Geography Bee: Playoff Round 1
Tournament                                                                                Room
                                                                                                                            Round          P1
 Moderator                                                Scorer




Student names (include                                                                                                                      Halftime
                           1    2   3    4   5    6   7    8   9   10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20
full name and school)                                                                                                                        Score




INSTRUCTIONS:
SCORING: For correct answers, place new running total in student’s row for the corresponding question. For negatives, place running total and circle
it. Cross out entire column if no score change. Make sure to place scores in the column for the correct question.
                    International Geography Bee: Playoff Round 1
Tournament                                                                                Room
                                                                                                                            Round          P1
 Moderator                                                Scorer




Student names (include                                                                                                                      Halftime
                           1    2   3    4   5    6   7    8   9   10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20
full name and school)                                                                                                                        Score




INSTRUCTIONS:
SCORING: For correct answers, place new running total in student’s row for the corresponding question. For negatives, place running total and circle
it. Cross out entire column if no score change. Make sure to place scores in the column for the correct question.
                                2018 International Geography Bee
                          US Varsity & Junior Varsity National Championships

                                                  SEMIFINALS
1. This lake’s primary inflows include the Alamo River and the heavily polluted Rio Nuevo or New River. This body of
water’s tourism potential led it to be nicknamed the “New Mediterranean” in the 1950s and Desert Shores is on the
western side of this body of water. The southernmost sighting of Ross’ gull, an Arctic bird species, was found on this
endorheic lake known for its diverse birdlife. The Whitewater River flows into this body of water as it passes through
Riverside County. Formed accidentally after the flooding of the Colorado River, this body of water marks boundaries of
the Coachella Valley and the Imperial Valley. For the point, name this lake that is the largest entirely in California.

ANSWER: Salton Sea

2. This city’s Horcon Bay is home to a bridge into which visitors can write their personal wishes. The famous New Years
fireworks in this city once broke a Guinness World Record for most fireworks fired in a single evening at 16,000. This
city’s Plaza Wheelwright and Plaza Sotomayor are separated by the Barrio Puerto. The oldest stock exchange in South
America was created in this non-national capital city nicknamed the “Jewel of the Pacific.” Roughly 120 kilometers away
from Santiago, for the point, name this port city that is often seen as the cultural capital of Chile.

ANSWER: Valparaiso, Chile

3. This company’s Astro 430 was built specifically to track dogs. Garry Burrell and Min Kao co-founded this company
headquartered in Lenexa, Kansas. Though not Fitbit, this company sells a wristwatch that monitors sleep and physical
movement known as the Vivofit. Along with Asus, this company designed a hands-free version of its main technology
known as Nuvifone. Originally named ProNav, this company’s StreetPilot was one of its first products used in
automobiles. For the point, name this company known for its GPS technology.

ANSWER: Garmin

4. This city’s Zarechnaya metro station is allegedly haunted by the ghosts of laborers who died while working on it. The
Fedorovsky Embankment is home to many walking tours in this city that is served by Strigino International Airport. Over
30,000 students attend this city’s Lobachevsky State University. The Alexander Nevsky Cathedral is an important
landmark in this city that was formerly named after the playwright Maxim Gorky. For the point, name this major Russian
city not to be confused with a similarly named city that was sacked by Ivan the Terrible.

ANSWER: Nizhny Novgorod

5. Swan Creek and Wildwood are two of the twelve Metroparks in this city. Burt Reynolds began the tradition of celebrity
bun signings of hot dogs in this city’s famous Tony Packo’s Café. This seat of Lucas County can be found along the banks
of the Maumee River, which is crossed by Anthony Wayne Bridge. This city, which names an almost bloodless 19th
century interstate war, is home to Owens Corning and a number of other glass companies. This city is located on the Erie
end of the Miami-Erie Canal and along its state's border with Michigan. For the point, name this major Ohio city that
shares its name with a city in Spain.

ANSWER: Toledo, Ohio
6. A popular wildlife tourist destination in this province is the Snow Rainbow Valley in Yishui County. The Jade Emperor
is the main peak on this province’s Mount Tai Shan, which is one of the Five Sacred Mountains. A UNESCO World
Heritage site in this province contains the largest temple of Confucianism. The largest export beer brand in China is based
in this province’s most-populous city. The Bohai Sea is separated from the Yellow Sea to the south by this province’s
namesake peninsula. For the point, name this eastern Chinese province containing Qingdao.

ANSWER: Shandong (accept Shantung)

7. A town in this state holds the record for making the largest pecan pie ever created. The fact that this state is landlocked
may contribute to the fact that it has the most manmade lakes of any U.S. state. The oldest known range to exist between
the Appalachians and the Rockies is this state’s Arbuckle Mountains. “Labor conquers all things” is the motto of this state
where the Mountain Time Zone is observed in one community in its westernmost county, Cimarron. This state’s name
comes from the Choctaw phrase for “red people” and its governor Mary Fallin has recently come under attack due to
excess cuts to education funding. For the point, name this South Central state on the Great Plains home to the cities of
Edmond and Tulsa.

ANSWER: Oklahoma

8. An annual World Festival dedicated to this food is held in the city of St. George, where this food is eaten in the largest
quantities per capita on Earth. This food is produced by breaking up another food that has been subject to the process of
nixtamalization. A region stretching from Texas to Virginia is sometimes called this food’s namesake belt. This food is
often paired with shrimp in a characteristic dish of the Lowcountry. A variety of this food that relies on milk rather than
water for boiling is designated “Charleston-style.” Hominy is used to make, for the point, what ground corn-based dish
popular in the South?

ANSWER: grits (prompt on corn before mentioned; prompt on maize; prompt on hominy before mentioned)

9. The creation of this road was brought about in 1857 when a head of state famously declared “I have resolved to
command.” An Art Nouveau building along this road dedicated to the muse of astronomy is its Urania, where public
lectures often occur. The Café Landtmann was established in 1873 along this road that passes along a square known as the
Rathausplatz. The Kunsthistoriches Museum is a major museum along this road, which is found on the edge of its city’s
Innere Stadt or Inner City. This road was constructed along the route of its city’s former city walls, which had twice
thwarted Ottoman invasions. Sigmund Freud frequently walked around, for the point, what road in Vienna that is named
for its circular shape?

ANSWER: Ringstrasse (accept Vienna Ring Road; accept Ring Road after “Vienna” is mentioned but prompt before)

10. Though not Peru, this country is the site of an art project in which a hidden chest called the Treasure of Lima was
buried off its coast. As a show of goodwill, the Taiwanese government helped fund the creation of this country’s
Tempisque River Bridge that connects one of its provinces to the Nicoya Peninsula. In 2017, tourists were evacuated after
an eruption of the crater on this country’s Poas Volcano. In this country whose Irazu Volcano is particularly active,
citizens refer to themselves as Ticos. This country abolished its military and has an active tourism industry, with
foreigners seeking out its pura vida mindset. South of Nicaragua, for the point, name this Central American country with
capital at San Jose.

ANSWER: Republic of Costa Rica

11. This was the first geographic feature of its type discovered on a trip down the Firehole River during an 1870
expedition. The Kepler Cascades are within a few miles of this feature that General Sheridan found could be used to
launder cotton clothing. The tradition of celebrating Christmas in August began after a party was stranded in an inn named
after this feature. On average there is an average time of 65 to 91 minutes between eruptions of this feature, which
exceeds 200 degrees Fahrenheit in water temperature. For the point, name this best-known geyser in Yellowstone
National Park, named for its reliable frequency.

ANSWER: Old Faithful
12. This idea claims that countries like Germany, the U.S. and Turkey are part of a “greater inner crescent.” The article
outlining this theory claims that the expansion of Europe’s “[continuation of] the opposition between Roman and Greek”
is “one of the most striking coincidences in history.” Dmitri Kitsikis was influenced by this theory when developing his
idea of an “Intermediate Region” existing in Eurasia. According to this theory, Asia, Africa, and Europe combine to form
a World-Island that forms the center of human society. Proposed in an 1894 paper, for the point, name this geopolitical
theory proposed by Halford Mackinder.

ANSWER: heartland theory (accept the geographical pivot of history, prompt on Mackinder's Theory before mentioned)

13. The Bakka church is located next to a feature of this type that is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. A municipality
named after one of these locations is the northernmost point where lobsters live. The source from which these features are
formed distinguishes them from rias. The city of Drammen is named for one of these features that becomes a strait near
the town of Svelvik. The Seven Sisters is a prominent waterfall at one of these locations that terminates at Geiranger.
With a name deriving from the Norse language, for the point, name these bodies of water created by glaciers that are
known for their steep walls.

ANSWER: Fjords

14. The largest island to be contained within its own reef lies in this body of water. The Jewel of Muscat was a replica of a
shipwreck that archaeologists found off one island in this body of water. Ujung Kolon National Park is on the western end
of this body of water that contains the island of Belitung. This body of water is fed by the Eastern Sunda River system.
The Karimata Strait connects the South China Sea to this sea that is bound by Sulawesi to the east and Sumatra to the
west. For the point, name this sea within Indonesia whose namesake island contains the nation’s capital.

ANSWER: Java Sea (accept Laut Jawa)

15. The smallest of these locations contains a popular SCUBA diving area around its Fathom Five region due to the large
numbers of visible shipwrecks. The downward flowing Angel Glacier can be found in one of these locations that can be
visited along the Icefields Parkway. In 2017, admission was free to these venues in celebration of its country’s 150th
anniversary. The emerald-colored Lake Louise is a popular attraction in another of these places originally named after the
Rocky Mountains. For the point, name these scenic locations examples of which include Banff in Alberta.

ANSWER: national parks of Canada (prompt on partial answer)

16. George Kling and Bill Evans built a solar-powered detector in this country following an incident that was described by
the term mazuku, which translates to “evil wind.” In 2003, work began on a venting pipe to prevent further civilians from
being harmed around this country’s Lake Monoun. A landslide on this country’s Oku volcanic field is among the
proposed causes of a limnic eruption that saw several hundred thousand tons of carbon dioxide expelled from its Lake
Nyos. For the point, name this African country east of Nigeria with capital at Yaounde.

ANSWER: Republic of Cameroon (accept République du Cameroun)

17. The final song of the Pet Shop Boys’ album Actually is named for this location. In the book The Eight Famous
Engines, this is originally the intended destination of Gordon the Engine before he stops in St. Pancras, with which this
station is paired on the London Underground map. In another book, a flying Ford Anglia is borrowed after Dobby blocks
an entrance within this place. After asking a mother named Molly for assistance in navigating this location, a boy in that
novel comes to meet Ronald Weasley. For the point, name this London railway station that contains Platform Nine-and-
Three Quarters in the Harry Potter series.

ANSWER: King’s Cross Station (anti-prompt on Platform Nine-and-Three Quarters)
18. In June 2015, catastrophic flooding in this city led to the release of lions, tigers, and a hippopotamus escaping from its
zoo, which then roamed its streets until being shot or tranquilized. A tunnel in this city leading to its country’s National
Botanical Garden was converted into a nightclub called Gvirabi. A statue of a woman holding a bowl of wine in one hand
and a sword in the other can be found on this city’s Sololaki hill. The Sameba is the major cathedral in this city that is
overlooked by the Narikala Fortress. The historic Sioni Street passes through this city that is fed by the Kura River and is
where Stalin once studied at a seminary. Found in the Caucasus Mountains, for the point, name this largest city and capital
of Georgia.

ANSWER: Tbilisi, Georgia (accept Tiflis, Georgia)

19. Ted Turner once claimed that he would financially back plans to convert this region into a peace park. An 11-inch
long parasitic worm was found in the stomach of a twenty-four year old man who ran across this region in November of
2017. The American government increased alertness to DEFCON 3 after a 1976 incident in this region that led to
Operation Paul Bunyan. The Conference Row in this region’s Joint Security Area is the only location along it where
soldiers on either side face each other. For the point, name this 160-mile long region passing through the 38th parallel that
separates North and South Korea.

ANSWER: Korean DeMilitarized Zone (accept just DMZ)

20. An over 500 foot long Snake Path leads to one building of this type named after Dr. Seuss that can be found in San
Diego. One of these buildings in New Hampshire contains a mural series depicting the European conquest of North
America that was painted by Jose Clemente Orozco. John W. Sterling names a building of this type in New Haven,
Connecticut that replaced Dwight Hall in its central capacity. A building of this type at Princeton contains a signed
manuscript of The Great Gatsby while the most famous of these in England is the Bodleian at Oxford. For the point, name
these university buildings that often contain Reading Rooms.

ANSWER: university libraries (accept library)

21. LAFAZA is a company founded by former Peace Corps volunteers that focuses on the sustainable production of this
good. In 2000, roughly 15% of the world supply of this good was destroyed in Cyclone Hudah, causing prices to reach up
to $500 per kilogram. The planifolia species is the most common plant from which this good is derived. A variety of this
good which gets its name from the former name of the island of Reunion is the Bourbon variety. With over 3,700 tons
created annually, the largest producers of this good are Madagascar and Indonesia. For the point, name this flavoring used
in a popular type of ice cream.

ANSWER: vanilla planifolia (accept vanilla extract; accept vanilla bean; accept Madagascar vanilla; accept Bourbon
vanilla; prompt on planifolia before mentioned)

22. In this country, women wear yellow dresses during a celebration of the first day of spring known as Pahela Falgun.
Production of various industries in this country like oil and tea is highest in its Sylhet region. The major
telecommunications provider of this county is Grameenphone, which is a joint venture with its similarly named
microfinance bank. Tourists in this country flock to beaches in its oddly named city of Cox’s Bazaar, while residents of its
Sundarbans region must avoid some of the most aggressive man-eating tigers in the world. A region in this majority
Muslim country where roughly two-thirds of the inhabitants practice Buddhism is its Chittagong Hills. Bengali is the most
widely spoken language in, for the point, what South Asian country with capital at Dhaka?

ANSWER: People's Republic of Bangladesh (accept Ganaprajatantri Bamladesa)

23. David Alloway’s work as a naturalist in this desert helped him write about it in his guide, Desert Survival Skills. The
walls of McKittrick Canyon help protect an oasis in this desert that is home to the Malpai Borderlands. This desert lies to
the east of the Maderan Sky Islands and this desert’s White Sands National Monument is found near Alamogordo. After
the Great Basin, this is North America’s largest desert. Including a large portion of west Texas, for the point, name this
desert that covers much of a namesake northern Mexican state bordering Sonora.

ANSWER: Chihuahuan Desert
24. The northern and southern sections of this body of water are connected by the Goyder Channel. In 2012, a local
Arabana name was officially combined with the old name of this body of water that the Oodnadatta Track passes under on
its way from Marree to Marla. The Diamantina River and Kallakoopah Creek flow into this body of water whose basin
includes the Simpson Desert. This lake's Yacht Club can only operate during certain years, while at other times it used for
land speed records. Containing the lowest natural point on its continent, this lake is found roughly 700 kilometers north of
Adelaide. For the point, name this usually-dry largest Australian lake.

ANSWER: Lake Eyre (Kati Thanda–Lake Eyre)

25. A form of wrestling native to this island is known as S'Istrumpa. Saremar is a shipping company based on this island
offering ferries to its country’s mainland. A body of water that was the largest reservoir in Europe at the time of its
construction is this island’s Lake Omodeo. The Gallurese dialect is native to the northeast of this island whose most-
populous province is Sassari. The Strait of Bonifacio separates this island from one to the north. Cagliari is the largest city
and capital of this island to the south of Corsica. For the point, name this second-largest island of Italy.

ANSWER: Sardinia (accept Sardegna)

26. The most highly concentrated city of this ethnic group is Westminster, California, where its members make up roughly
40% of the population. The Orderly Departure Program helped these people legally arrive in the U.S. as a result of a mass
wave of migrations. The San Jose-based fast food chain Lee’s Sandwiches was founded by two members of this ethnic
group. A noodle soup known as pho (pr. fuh) is part of the cuisine of this ethnic group, some of whose members left their
country as refugees known as “boat people.” For the point, name this ethnic group, many of whom live in Orange
County’s Little Saigon.

ANSWER: Vietnamese-Americans (accept Nguoi Mu goc Viet; do not accept or prompt on Hmong)

27. The Barkley Dam can be found along a river of this name, whose three forks merge near the city of Baxter. The Caney
Fork River is a tributary of that river of this name. A mountain range of this name that passes through much of Harlan
County contains its state’s highest point of Black Mountain and is bordered to the north by the Allegheny Plateau. A
National Historic Park contains a feature bearing this name that, in 1775, was widened for westward expansion. For the
point, give this name of a Gap through which Daniel Boone blazed the Wilderness Road.

ANSWER: Cumberland (accept Cumberland River; accept Cumberland Gap; accept Cumberland Mountains)

28. The Karabash Reservoir in this constituent republic was filled to service the oil industry in its Zay River Valley. A
fried honey cake known as chak-chak is native to this republic, whose largest city contains one of the shortest metro
system on Earth. The Kama River joins the Volga in this republic that is north of Samara and Orenburg Oblasts. The
Qolsharif mosque can be found in this republic’s capital, which is sometimes called the “third capital of Russia.” For the
point, name this Russian republic centered in Kazan that is home to a historically nomadic people.

ANSWER: Tatarstan

29. This island’s regions of La Ringot and Middle Plantation were popular areas for growing tobacco. The lack of reefs
around Cayonne made it a major settlement on this island. The central group in a 1922 Rafael Sabatini novel relocates to
this island after being forced to flee from Barbados. This island got its name due to its resemblance of the shape of a
turtle. Along with those of Hispaniola, inhabitants on this island inspired the word for buccaneers. Captain Henry Morgan
frequently visited, for the point, what Haitian island that has historically been associated with Caribbean pirates?

ANSWER: Tortuga Island
30. In 2006, Pope Benedict XVI made a visit to this building, making him only the second pope to a building of its type.
During the summer, a prominent light show is held outside this building every night. A controversy involving this
building was resolved when its patron ordered his architect to add an additional tower to the Masjid al-Haram. This
building with six minarets was designed by Sedefkar Mehmed Agha, who was a student of Sinan. Sometimes named for
Sultan Ahmed, for the point, name this house of worship in Istanbul with a colorful name.

ANSWER: Blue Mosque (accept Sultan Ahmed Mosque or Sultan Ahmet Mosque or Sultan Ahmet Camii before
“Ahmed” is mentioned)

31. The creation of Lake Walcott is part of a public works program along this river known as the Minidoka Project. Near
this river’s confluence with one of its tributaries, an excavation site that found human remains dating back over 11,000
years is known as the Marmes Rockshelter. A 65-meter high waterfall along this river is sometimes called the “Niagara of
the West," and this river ends near Pasco, one of its state's Tri-Cities. The Shoshone Falls are found along this river that
flows through Hells Canyon before entering the Columbia River in Washington. For the point, name this river that forms
much of the border between Idaho and Oregon.

ANSWER: Snake River

32. With over 2 million bottles in a single complex, a city in this country is famous for containing the largest wine
collection on Earth. A large cave monastery can be found in this nation’s village of Tipova. In Europe, this country has
the lowest ratio of tourists to locals. Aside from its main language, Gagauz is extensively spoken in this country’s south.
Tiraspol is the capital of an unrecognized state in this country alternatively known as the “Left Bank of the Dneister.”
Transnistria is found in, for the point, what Eastern European country to the east of Romania?

ANSWER: Republic of Moldova (accept Republica Moldova)

33. This county contains the longest zip wire in England, which can be found in its botanically-themed Eden Project. A
rare region in which ocean crust is elevated above sea level can be found in this county’s Lizard Complex. The residents
of this county’s main municipality refer to themselves as Trurorians. Spy novelist John Le Carré has long called this
county home, as have residents of St. Agnes in this county’s Scilly Islands, which are found off Lands End. Tintagel
Castle is a popular tourist site in this county where King Arthur was allegedly conceived. The Tamar River forms this
county’s eastern border with Devon. The Celtic Sea is to the north of, for the point, what county in the far southwest of
England?

ANSWER: Cornwall (accept Kernow)

34. Ed Burtt has been waiting for over 25 years to receive government permission to recover the artifacts of a shipwreck
in this body of water. This lake's name comes from the Wyandot word for “Lake of the Shining Waters” and it is
connected to its slightly higher neighbor by the Welland Canal. St. Catharines and Oakville are on this body of water, part
of a heavily industrialized region nicknamed the “Golden Horseshoe," which runs from the Niagara River to the metro
area of Canada's largest city. For the point, name this smallest by surface area and easternmost of the five Great Lakes that
shares its name with a Canadian province.

ANSWER: Lake Ontario

35. During the Zanclean Deluge, the filling of a larger body of water was made possible by the inundation of this then
dried up one. The Vendaval is a wind that blows westward from this body of water, northwest of which the Cape
Trafalgar Lighthouse was built. El Estrecho National Park is located on one end of this body of water that separates one
country’s mainland from its autonomous city of Ceuta. Tariq’s Mountain is the alternative name for a major limestone
feature of, for the point, what narrow body of water separating Spain and Morocco that is named for a rock?

ANSWER: Strait of Gibraltar
Tiebreaks / Extra

36. This nation’s city of Ipora is known for its particularly clear water. This nation’s hilly Cuchilla Grande range is fed by
the Yi River. A bridge in this country running between its cities of Colon and Paysandu is named after Jose Artigas.
“Freedom or death” is the national motto of this country that, in 2013, was the first to legalize marijuana. The name of this
nation translates as “river of the painted birds” in the Guarani language. Consisting mostly of grassland, this country’s
namesake river helps form the Rio de la Plata. For the point, name this country to the east of Argentina.

ANSWER: Uruguay

37. The designer of this country’s flag was an artist originally from its Wenchi Principality. The exact features and
symbolisms of this country’s flag were adopted in a rearranged permutation 16 years later for the flag of Guinea-Bissau.
Theodosia Okoh designed this country’s flag, whose middle line is a reference to this country’s wealth of minerals. This
non-Ethiopian country’s flag includes horizontal red, yellow and green stripes to represent the colors of Pan-Africanism.
A shipping line established by Marcus Garvey inspired the central black star of, for the point, what West African
country’s flag that is often seen in cities such as Cape Coast, Kumasi, and Accra?

ANSWER: Republic of Ghana

38. The resemblance of a central compound causing this phenomenon to nitrous oxide led Rowland and Molina to
formulate a hypothesis about it. A major 1985 article by Farman, Gardiner, and Shanklin found the extent of this
phenomenon to be greater that previously thought, leading to theories claiming it was caused by PSCs. Declines below
200 Dobson units in the Arctic have led scientists to speculate that this phenomenon has been a product global warming.
Chlorofluorocarbons are a leading cause of, for the point, what decreasing of a stratospheric compound?

ANSWER: ozone depletion (accept ozone hole or obvious equivalents; accept Arctic or Antarctic in answer)

39. Circular features named Maraldi and Theophrastus are found within this feature’s Bay of Love. The Marsh of Sleep is
along the northeastern edge of this feature, which Plinius separates from a similar feature named for Serenity. Surveyor 5
touched down within this feature that is known for its bluish color. The LRO has discovered irregular mare [MA-ray]
patches in this particularly flat area, a famous visit to which saw a flag placed in it by Buzz Aldrin and Neil Armstrong. In
1969, the Apollo 11 crew landed on, for the point, what lunar “sea.”

ANSWER: Sea of Tranquility (accept Mare Tranquillitatis; accept Bay of Love before mentioned; prompt on Earth’s
Moon or similar answers)

40. A type of this dish that often includes capelin and spicy mayonnaise is the Dynamite type. A brand of cream cheese
inspired the name of a type of this dish known for using said cheese. The 1970 World Expo popularized the use of the
serving of this dish via a conveyor belt. A particularly well-known example of this dish that supposedly got its name from
its popularity in Los Angeles often makes use of imitation of crab. Sumeshi is a form of rice used to make, for the point,
what Japanese dish, examples of which include the California roll.

ANSWER: sushi roll (accept clear-knowledge equivalents; prompt on rolls or any specific types of sushi rolls)
