           2019 International Geography Bee
         US Middle School & Elementary School
               National Championships
                                 SEMIFINALS
1. This island’s House of Wonders commemorates a 38 minute long war with the British fought
here. This one-time possession of the Oman Sultanate is also known as Unguja by the local
people, and it makes up a namesake archipelago with islands like Pemba and Mafia Island. For
the point, name this Indian Ocean island that merged with the African mainland region of
Tanganyika to form a state with capital at Dodoma.
ANSWER: Zanzibar [Accept Unguja before mentioned]

2. The historical state of Nekor in this region was plundered by at least sixty Viking ships during
the reign of Sa'id II ibn Salih. This region is home to the Jbala people, who are largely descended
from exiled Moriscos and speak a non-Hilalian form of Arabic. A breakaway Berber state named
for this region fought forces led by Manuel Silvestre and Francisco Franco in the 1920s. For the
point, name this mountainous region of northern Morocco.
ANSWER: Er-Rif [prompt on Northern Morocco, do not prompt on Atlas]

3. Representing the respective states of Minas Gerais and Sao Paulo, “milk” and this commodity
were used to name a time period in a certain South American country. Since 1852, Brazil has
dominated world production of this crop, rivaled only by Vietnam, Colombia, and Indonesia.
This plant comes primarily in robusta and arabica varieties, which differ based on their caffeine
content. For the point, which crop’s namesake “beans” are brewed to create a dark brown drink?
ANSWER: coffee [accept Coffea arabica; accept Coffea robusta]
4. Yale professor Bertram Boltwood studied the water quality of a city with this name, noting an
unusual amount of dissolved radon gas. That city with this name is home to Bathhouse Row, a
collection of “whites-only” business and gardens designed in various ostentatious architectural
styles. It’s not Hope, but this former residence of Bill Clinton is nestled in the Ouachita
Mountains, and there is significantly more geothermal activity in the vicinity of this city than
elsewhere in the greater region. For the point, name this national park and city in Arkansas.
ANSWER: Hot Springs

5. A cape along this marginal sea is named for a brother-in-arms of Hector in The Aeneid, who
was drowned by Triton after challenging the gods to a music contest. The Sorrentine Peninsula
juts into this body of water, and that peninsula is a part of the longer Amalfi Coast. For the point,
name this marginal sea off the western coast of mainland Italy that is south of the Ligurian Sea
and part of the greater Mediterranean.
ANSWER: Tyrrhenian Sea [prompt on “Mediterranean” Sea]

6. The primary iwi of this island is the Ngai Tahu. Controversy erupted in 2019 when billionaire
Peter Thiel bought an estate in this island’s city of Queenstown, which lies next to Lake
Wakatipu. This island used to be home to its nation’s second largest city, but after an earthquake
that affected this island’s Canterbury Plain, that is no longer the case. For the point, name this
island containing the cities of Invercargill and Dunedin, as well as Christchurch, now the third
largest city in New Zealand.
ANSWER: South Island

7. In 2014, a flagpole built in this city passed ones in Dushanbe, Baku, and Panmunjom as the
world’s tallest. This city also possesses the world’s highest fountain, which fires water 800 feet
above the Red Sea. While the planned height for this city’s namesake “Tower” has been lowered
from a mile to a kilometer, it would still be the world’s tallest building upon completion. For the
point, name this port city, the second largest in Saudi Arabia after Riyadh.
ANSWER: Jeddah [accept Jidda]

8. This region’s Eble Uhren-Park is home to a theme park dedicated to Cuckoo Clocks, including
the largest one in existence. This range’s highest peak of Feldberg was once home to many radio
stations for the NATO Allies to communicate with the Bundeswehr. A namesake cake of this
region is made with cherries and it lies across the Rhine River from the Vosges (pr. VOAZH).
For the point, name this low mountain range largely in the state of Baden-Württemberg that is
known in German as the Schwarzwald (pr. SHVARTZ-vald)
ANSWER: Black Forest [Accept Schwarzwald before mention]
9. Note to players: Specific infrastructure and country required
The Bryan-Chamorro Treaty would have given the U.S. rights to one of these projects, which
was sidelined after an alternative was organized via the Hay-Bunau-Varilla Treaty. In 2013, the
Chinese billionaire Wang Jing attempted to fund one of these specific construction projects,
which would have begun at Punta Brito on the Atlantic side, and ended at Bluefields on the
Pacific side. Planned to utilize its country’s namesake lake, for the point, name this type of oft-
proposed structure, a man-made waterway through a non-Panamanian country whose capital is
Managua.
ANSWER: A canal through Nicaragua [prompt on partial answer; do NOT accept or prompt on
answers mentioning “Panama”]

10. The Royal Belum is a 130 million year old rainforest nestled in this peninsula’s Titiwangsa
Mountain Range. This peninsula’s region of Kedah changed hands during the Second World War
and was renamed Syburi. The narrowest part of this peninsula is the Kra Isthmus. The Straits of
Johor separate this peninsula a city led by Prime Minister Lee Hsien (pr. SHEN) Loong. For the
point, name this peninsula that is largely occupied by Thailand and its namesake nation.
ANSWER: Malay Peninsula

11. Towns on this body of water include Deline and Fort Confidence. The Bloody River
originates in this lake’s Dease Arm, runs through Nunavut, and empties into the Arctic Ocean.
For the point, name this largest lake in Canada found in the Northwest Territories that, like the
Great Slave Lake, was named by the local Slave people, in this case for an endemic omnivore.
ANSWER: Great Bear Lake

12. Atop this city’s Reservoir Hill is the Aviator’s Arrow, a sign created in the 1920s to help
guide Charles Lindbergh to a safe landing at MacIntyre Airport. This city on the Arkansas River
is home to the Greenwood district, the site of a 1921 race riot, and the Osage Reservation lies
between this city and the border with Kansas to its north. For the point, name this city in the
foothills of the Ozarks that is the second largest city in Oklahoma.
ANSWER: Tulsa

13. The historian Herodotus was from this city but was likely exiled to Samos after his uncle, the
poet Panyassis, participated in a local uprising. The death of a namesake Carian satrap who
conquered many of the Ionian islands led his wife Artemisia I to build of one of Seven Wonders
of the World in this site now found in Turkey. For the point, name this once great Greek city-
state known for a certain Mausoleum.
ANSWER: Halicarnassus [Accept Bodrum]
14. Most of this location’s inhabitants moved to Hampshire, England after a volcano destroyed
their settlement of “Edinburgh of the Seven Seas”. This group includes a guano-rich extinct
volcano named Inaccessible Island. This archipelago has no airstrips, and only one boat regularly
comes here, making sporadic trips from Cape Town. Located roughly between Uruguay and
South Africa in the southern Atlantic Ocean, for the point, name this group of volcanic islands,
the most remote inhabited location in the world.
ANSWER: Tristan da Cunha [prompt on Tristan alone]

15. The cities of Bossier City and Shreveport sit on opposite sides of this river in Louisiana. It
originates near Amarillo and later converges with the Mississippi River. This river shares its
name with rivers running through northern Vietnam and North Dakota. For the point, name this
colorfully named river, which separates Texas from Oklahoma, whose name also describes a sea
between Africa and Arabia.
ANSWER: Red River of the South

16. This state’s highest point is the not very creatively named “High Point” which lies at the apex
of Kittatinny Mountain. Famous musicians from this state include the Hoboken-born Frank
Sinatra and Bon Jovi, along with a man who has given many concerts in its Meadowlands, Bruce
Springsteen. For the point, name this most densely populated state where the Industrial
Revolution led to the development of Paterson, and where Cape May lies at the southern tip of its
shore on the Atlantic.
ANSWER: New Jersey

17. This building recently created the experience Edgewalk, where visitors can walk on the roof
of the main pod with a guide while tethered to an overhead rail system. Falling ice from this
structure punctured the roof of the nearby Rogers Centre, causing that day’s MLB game to be
postponed. This tower was the tallest freestanding structure in the world for three decades, only
to be passed by the Burj Khalifa in 2007. For the point, name this tower in the Toronto skyline
originally owned by the railway company Canada National.
ANSWER: CN Tower

18. This island chain’s namesake national park has had an invasive beaver problem since those
animals were imported from Canada in 1946. This chain of islands are north of the Diego
Ramirez Islands, and the Boundary Treaty of 1881 split this island chain between two Latin
American nations. Cape Horn is south of this island chain. For the point, name this chain of
islands in the extreme south of South America.
ANSWER: Tierra del Fuego [Accept “Land of Fire”]
19. An episode of Mystery Science Theatre 3000 that revolves around the film The Castle of Fu
Manchu sees Tom Servo recite multiple lines of a song named for this city to Joel. This home
city of the Topkapi Palace is where cannons designed by the Hungarian engineer Orban led to a
successful 1453 siege. This city contains the Golden Horn and the Blue Mosque. For the point,
name this city once known as Byzantium, and then as Constantinople, before acquiring its
present name, the largest city in Turkey.
ANSWER: Istanbul (prompt on Constantinople)

20. Pirate François le Clerc once hid out on this nation’s Pigeon Island, where the US built a base
during WWII through the Destroyers for Bases Agreement. This nation was often called the
“Helen of the West Indies” due to it often switching hands between two colonial powers,
inspiring one of the major themes of native Derek Walcott’s Omeros. For the point, name this
Caribbean island nation that was a British and French colony, whose modern capital is Castries.
ANSWER: St. Lucia [Accept Iyonola]

21. A city with this name has a set of medieval alleys called Snickelways, and William the
Conqueror built Clifford’s Tower and Baile Hill here during the “Harrying of the North”. That
city with this name was known as Eboracum by the Romans, and the local scholar Alcuin was a
biographer of Charlemagne. For the point, give this name of both a settlement in Ontario that
became Toronto and a city in Northern England that lends its name to a US state with capital at
Albany.
ANSWER: York

22. This nation that was once led by the Arengo, an assembly of powerful families, still has an
executive branch made up of two Captains Regent. This “most serene” nation came into
existence when the title saint declared the independence of the area surrounding Monte Titano
during the Diocletian persecutions. Along with the Vatican City, this is the only country in
Europe to be completely surrounded by another. For the point, name this European microstate in
the Apennines, completely surrounded by Italy.
ANSWER: San Marino

23. The Parkin site is home to remainders of a fortified village of these people that was visited on
an expedition of Hernando de Soto, who named it Casqui. One site built by these people, Mound
72, contains a plurality of sacrificial victims and includes iconography depicting the mythic
“birdman.” For the point, name these inhabitants of Cahokia, who built many mound sites,
including the Great Serpent Mound, near a certain US river.
ANSWER: Mississippian Culture [Accept Caddo people or Adena culture]
24. The Treaty of Medicine Creek gave tribes like the Nisqually and the Puyallup fishing rights
on this body of water. Deception Pass connects a smaller part of this body, Skagit Bay, to the
Juan de Fuca Strait. Elliott Bay is a subset of this body of water, overlooked by Seattle. For the
point, name this southern arm of the Salish Sea, a sound in Washington State.
ANSWER: Puget Sound

25. Gagauzia is a three-town-large proto-state whose namesake people are Turkic Bulgars.
Alexander Suvarov is from this nation’s second-largest city, Tiraspol, along the Dniester River.
This nation is the smaller of the two where the population primarily speaks Romanian. For the
point, name this poorest European nation and former Soviet Socialist Republic with capital at
Chișinău.
ANSWER: Republic of Moldova

26. Sergei Prokofiev wrote a tone poem to celebrate the 1952 completion of a canal connecting
this river to a river east of it that empties into the Caspian Sea. A subset of Cossacks named for
this river were led by Pugachev in an 18th century revolt against Catherine the Great. For the
point, name this river between the Dnieper and Volga river basins that empties into the Sea of
Azov.
ANSWER: Don River

27. This city’s slum of Mahwa Aser, largely inhabited by servants called akhdam, was the site of
a clash between dwellers and the police in 2008, leading to ten shacks being demolished. This
city temporarily lost its status as capital to the port city of Aden as a result of the Houthi-led
September 21st revolt. For the point, name this city in central Yemen, the largest in the nation.
ANSWER: Sana’a

28. Although heavily damaged by Cyclone Sidr, one region of this country generally serves as a
protective wind shield for cities such as Khulna and Mongla. This home country of the
Sundarbans has a total ban on killing most forms of wildlife within that region, including its
native Bengal tigers. For the point, name this country for which George Harrison once organized
a benefit concert, which is home to the cities of Cox’s Bazaar and Chittagong, as well as its
capital of Dhaka.
ANSWER: Bangladesh

29. At the mouth of this river, the St. Nazaire Raid, was an attempt by the Royal Navy to disrupt
the repairing of the Tirpitz by taking out Nazi drydocks. The short Canal de Berry connects this
river to the Cher near the settlement of Noyers. This river, whose name comes from the Gaulish
word for “sediment”, empties into the Bay of Biscay and it is famous for its many chateaux. For
the point, name this longest river in France.
ANSWER: Loire River [Accept Léger]
30. This island nation is home to the needle shaped “Great Dog Peak” near its village of Vila
Clotilde. This country is a member of a chain of islands known as the Cameroon Line, which
also includes Bioko and Annabon. For the point, name this nation, considered to be the second
least populous in greater Africa after the Seychelles, which is where Portuguese colonists named
an island after Saint Thomas.
ANSWER: São Tomé and Principe


Tiebreakers / Extras
31. One of this country’s largest cities lies on its north coast and is known as Akureyri. The
island of Surtsey became a new part of this nation when it formed in the 20th century. This island
is home to the Althingi Parliament and travelers to this nation enter it at Keflavik Airport. For the
point, name this North Atlantic nation where Reagan and Gorbachev met at a summit in
Reyjavik.
ANSWER: Iceland

32. This is the easternmost of the two countries that contain Lake Abbe and its beautiful
limestone chimneys. In addition to Lake Assal, this country is home to China’s only Indian
Ocean naval base, as well as the United States’ only permanent military base in Africa, Camp
Lemonnier. For the point, name this small nation on the Horn of Africa between Eritrea,
Ethiopia, and Somalia.
ANSWER: Republic of Djibouti

33. The Karpas Peninsula extends far to the east from the mainland of this country, which served
as the setting for Shakespeare’s Othello via its city of Famagusta. The Kykkos Monastery is
located within this country’s copper-rich Troodos Mountains. Adjoining this country are the
British-owned territories of Akrotiri and Dhekelia. For the point, name this Mediterranean island
country, divided into Greek and Turkish parts by the Green Line that goes through Nicosia.
ANSWER: Republic of Cyprus [accept Kibris; accept Cypriot Republic]

34. Along the Menwin River in Myanmar, visitors can see two statues of this man, one reclining
and one standing upwards, in the Po Kuang Hills. The largest statues of this man is carved into
stone in China’s Sichuan province, and is named the “Leshan Giant.” For the point, name this
man who is depicted in numerous statues, the founder of a religion that began in Asia.
ANSWER: Buddha
