  2018 Intl. Geography Bee US Middle School & Elementary National Championships
                                    Semifinals


1. This river flows through the town of Tanana, and Skookum Jim and Soapy Smith helped to instigate one event along
this river. The ghost town of Dawson City was built along this river. A town along this river was the namesake of a 1898
gold rush; that town is Klondike. This river flows through the territorial capital of Whitehorse, and this river is the longest
in Alaska. The westernmost of Canada’s territories is named for, for the point, what river?
ANSWER: ​Yukon​ River

2. This city’s landmarks include its “fluted minaret”, and most of the architect Sinan’s works are found in this city. Orhan
Pamuk is the author of several novels set in this city, whose landmarks include its Galata Bridge and Blue Mosque. This
city’s harbor is known as the Golden Horn. The Selimiyye and Suleymaniyye Mosques in this city are named after sultans
of an empire that was based here. For the point, name this largest city in Turkey, a Byzantine and Ottoman capital
formerly known as Constantinople.
ANSWER: ​Istanbul​ (accept ​Constantinople​ before mention)

3. To the east of this landform lies a body of water in which the Vaquita, the world’s most endangered cetacean, lives.
This landform borders Sebastian Vizcaino Bay, and one of its largest cities is the fishing port of Ensenada. This landform
is separated from the bulk of its country’s landmass by the Sea of Cortes, and its name is intended as a contrast with an
“Alta” province formerly controlled by its country. For the point, name this Mexican peninsula on the Pacific coast.
ANSWER: ​Baja​ California

4. These people founded the Republics of Stellaland and Goshen, and they were led in one war by General Piet Cronje
(​pr. PEET CRON-yeh​). These people established the Orange Free State after being led on the Great Trek by Paul
Kruger, and these people dominated their home country’s politics until the presidency of FW De Klerk. The city of
Pretoria is named after a leader of, for the point, what South African ethnic group of Dutch descent, who fought the
British in an early 20th century war?
ANSWER: ​Afrikaner​s (accept ​Boer​s, ​Dutch​ until mention; prompt on ​South African​s, South African w ​ hite​s)

5. This archipelago was the site of a friendly fire incident in which retreating Japanese occupiers had left behind only a
dog. This archipelago is divided into chains including the Near, Rat, and Fox Islands, and this archipelago’s city of Dutch
Harbor was the location of a battle during World War II. In that war, Japan occupied this archipelago’s islands of Attu and
Kiska. This archipelago shares a time zone with Hawaii and lies off the Alaska Peninsula. For the point, name this
archipelago off the coast of Alaska that contains the United States’ westernmost point.
ANSWER: ​Aleutian​ ​Islands
                                                                                            International Geography Bee
                                                                                                   Round 6 - Page 2 of 5
6. The Bligh Water separates two major islands in this country. The Koro Sea separates this country’s Lau Archipelago
from its largest island of Viti Levu. A “mermaid” from this country was once put on display by PT Barnum. This country
is the easternmost to be located in Melanesia, and it is located north of Tonga and west of Vanuatu. For the point, name
this Pacific island country with its capital at Suva.
ANSWER: ​Fiji

7. One producer of this good requested that the CIA overthrow Guatemalan president Jacobo Arbenz in 1953, and this
crop’s Gros Michel variety died out due to a disease named for Panama. O. Henry coined a term for Central American
countries referring to their production of this crop, and this crop was the primary product of the United Fruit Company.
For the point, name this crop whose name is often perjoratively paired with “Republic”.
ANSWER: ​banana

8. This island has long been politically unified with the neighboring island of Pemba, and this island’s Afro-Arab party
overthrew its monarchy in 1964. This island was the site of history’s shortest war which lasted for 38 minutes in 1896
between its sultanate and the British Empire. This island’s capital is at Stone Town and its country has its capital at
Dodoma. For the point, name this island that contributed a syllable to the name of Tanzania.
ANSWER: ​Zanzibar

9. This route requires fording the Kennebec River, a dangerous proposition due to hydroelectric dams. This route is the
subject of a memoir by Bill Bryson, ​A Walk in the Woods​. This route passes along Clingman’s Dome in its highest
sections, and this route runs from Mount Katahdin to Springer Mountain. This route passes through mountain ranges
including the Green Mountains and the Blue Ridge Mountains. For the point, name this very long trail that runs along the
length of a mountain range in the Eastern US.
ANSWER: ​Appalachian​ Trail

10. Residency in this city is restricted to people in the “core” classes. This city contains the unoccupied Ryugong Hotel,
which has a large pyramid-shaped facade, and this city is the hub of the state-run Air Koryo. This city is the home of
Juche Tower, and leaders nicknamed the “Dear Leader” and “Great Leader” ruled for decades from this city. Kim
Jong-Un currently leads a government based in this city. For the point, name this capital of North Korea.
ANSWER: ​Pyongyang

11. This tribe has branches including the Santee, Minneconjou, and Brule, and a member of this tribe declared its lands a
republic with its capital at the town of Porcupine. This tribe’s present day reservations include Crow Creek and Standing
Rock. This tribe was led by war leaders including Red Cloud, and this tribe formerly inhabited the Black Hills. Sitting
Bull, a chief of this tribe, won a victory over George Custer at the Battle of the Little Bighorn. For the point, name this
tribe native to the northern Great Plains.
ANSWER: ​Sioux​ (accept ​Nakota​, ​Lakota​, ​Dakota​)

12. The Rogun Dam on this country’s Vakhsh River will be one of the world’s tallest once completed, and this country’s
president, Enomali Rahmon, inaugurated a trend of dropping the suffix -ov from people’s names. This country’s Imeni
Ismail Somoni Peak is in its Pamir mountain range. This country’s most widespread native language is related to Persian,
unlike the Turkic languages that predominate in Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. For the point, name this country with its
capital at Dushanbe.
ANSWER: ​Tajikistan
                                                                                             International Geography Bee
                                                                                                    Round 6 - Page 3 of 5


13. This country contains the port of Sur, and this country controlled the port of Gwadar until the 1950s. This country
contains an exclave in the Musandam Peninsula, and this country’s Dhofar region attempted to secede in the 1970s. This
country has been ruled by Sultan Qaboos for over 40 years, and this country is located at the southern end of the Strait of
Hormuz. For the point, name this Middle Eastern country with its capital at Muscat.
ANSWER: ​Oman

14. The Abraham Lincoln Bridge spans the Ohio river in this city, and this city was the birthplace of Muhammad Ali, who
now names a cultural center in it. Fort Knox is located just outside this city, which contains a major baseball bat factory
where its namesake “sluggers” are made. This city is home to the first leg of horse racing’s Triple Crown at its Churchill
Downs racetrack. For the point, name this largest city by population in Kentucky.
ANSWER: ​Louisville

15. This city was originally centered on Thane Island, and this city contains the massive slum of Dharavi. A massive
statue of Shivaji is under construction in this city. This city was the location of a massive 2008 terror attack by
Lashkar-e-Taiba that attacked its Taj Hotel, and a film industry centered on this city has such stars as Preity Zinta and
Shah Rukh Khan. For the point, name this largest city in India, the center of the Bollywood film industry.
ANSWER: ​Mumbai​ (accept ​Bombay​)

16. This river’s namesake species of tiger inhabits the Sikhote Alin Mountains, and this river became an international
boundary after a 1860 annexation that violated the Treaty of Nerchinsk. This river is the namesake of the Chinese
province of Heilongjiang, and this river historically formed the border between inner and outer Manchuria. For the point,
name this river that forms the eastern part of the border between China and Russia.
ANSWER: ​Amur​ (accept ​Heilong​ before Heilongjiang is mentioned)



17. David Adjaye designed a building in this complex based partially on Yoruba architecture, and this complex’s
namesake “castle” is home to its visitor center. Another building in this complex houses a moon rock brought back from
the Apollo missions as well as the original Wright Flyer. Those buildings are the National Museum of African American
History and the National Air and Space Museum, both located in this complex. For the point, name this complex of 19
museums in Washington, DC.
ANSWER: ​Smithsonian​ Institution

18. Lake Toma is the source of this river, and this river was the namesake of a confederation established by Napoleon that
collapsed at the Battle of Leipzig. This river becomes harder to navigate east of Schaffhausen and farther downstream the
Moselle flows into it at Koblenz. The cities of Mainz and Cologne, which lie on this river, helped elect the ruler of the
Holy Roman Empire, and this river also converges with the Main River near the city of Frankfurt. For the point name this
major river of Western Europe that flows into the North Sea after forming the border of Germany and France.
ANSWER: ​Rhine​ River

19. This national park contains Pilot Peak and Hoyt Peak. Wolves were reintroduced into this national park in the 1990s
from a provincial park in Alberta, and this national park contains Tower Falls as well as the multi-colored volcanic Grand
Prismatic Spring. The city of Jackson Hole is often used as an entry point to this national park, and this national park
contains a geyser that erupts every half hour to two hours, Old Faithful. For the point, name this national park located on
its namesake river in Montana, Idaho, and Wyoming.
ANSWER: ​Yellowstone​ National Park
                                                                                               International Geography Bee
                                                                                                      Round 6 - Page 4 of 5



20. The mercury mines at Huancavelica were primarily used to process this element’s ores, and this element was separated
using the Patio Process at the city of Potosi. This element was mined at Nevada’s Comstock Lode and the Spanish word
for this element names a wide, brackish “river” that Buenos Aires is located on. For the point, name this element whose
chemical symbol is Ag.
ANSWER: ​Silver​ (accept ​Plata​, ​Argent​)

21. The flags of this country’s counties, which include Montserrado and Maryland, are noted for their cartoonish quality,
and this country contains the city of Tubmanburg. Ellen Johnson Sirleaf is a president of this country from its
American-descended elite, who emigrated to this country at the behest of the American Colonization Society. For the
point, name this West African nation with its capital at Monrovia.
ANSWER: ​Liberia

22. Umberto Nobile was the first person to fly over this place in a blimp. This place was the target of an expedition by
Fridtjof Nansen, and Frederic Cook which falsely claimed to have reached the place before the real first person to do so.
That expedition was co-led by the African-American explorer Matthew Henson, and was led by Robert Peary. For the
point, name this location found at 90 degrees North latitude.
ANSWER: ​North Pole

23. This color names the largest tributary of the Colorado River, which runs through Canyonlands National Park. A bay
named for this color separates Door County and the rest of Wisconsin. A mountain range named for this color contains
Mount Mansfield and was the namesake of a militia led by Ethan Allen. For the point, name this color, the namesake of
both Vermont and the mountain range that runs through it.
ANSWER: ​Green​ (accept ​Vermont​, ​Green River​, ​Green Mountains​, ​Green Bay​)

24. A building complex in this city operated functionally without a government for decades; that was a Walled City
named for one if its neighborhoods. The New Territories are the Northern part of this city, which is known for its high
concentration of Houseboats. The Youngspiration Movement advocates for this territory’s full separation from China.
This city has a Special Adminstrative Region status comparable to nearby Macao, and Cantonese is spoken in this city.
For the point, name this city transferred from Britain to China in 1997.
ANSWER: ​Hong Kong​ (accept ​Xianggang​)

25. The Uru people are most notable for building reed islands in this lake, and the Aymara people are native to the region
around this lake. This lake is patrolled by the navy of a country that lost its coastline in the War of the Pacific. This lake is
located to the South of Lake Poopo, and this lake is located just West of the city of La Paz. This lake is the world’s
highest in altitude. For the point, name this lake on the border between Bolivia and Peru.
ANSWER: Lake ​Titicaca

26. This country’s capital was named for a phrase meaning “New Flower” by a 16th century monarch. This country’s city
of Dire Dawa is home to many people of its Oromo ethnic group. This country’s capital is home to the headquarters of the
African Union, and this country was the center of the Axum kingdom. This country’s official language is Amharic. For
the point, name this African country with its capital at Addis Ababa.
ANSWER: ​Ethiopia
                                                                                            International Geography Bee
                                                                                                   Round 6 - Page 5 of 5


27. The Saramaccan language is spoken in this country, and this country’s highest point, Julianatop, is named for a queen
of the country that colonized it. This country was traded for New York in the 1667 Treaty of Breda. This country contains
the city of Nieuw Amsterdam, and this country was known as Dutch Guiana before becoming independent in 1975. For
the point, name this South American country with its capital at Paramaribo.
ANSWER: ​Suriname

28. This country is home to the semi-pagan Khevsur people, and one of this country’s dictators was toppled in the Rose
Revolution. This country’s city of Batumi is a resort town on its Black Sea coast, and its city of Sukhumi is the capital of
its breakaway region of Abkhazia, which along with South Ossetia was invaded by Russia in 2008. Mingrelian and
Kartvelian languages are spoken in this country, which was the birth country of Joseph Stalin. For the point, name this
Caucasian country with its capital at Tbilisi.
ANSWER: ​Georgia

29. This complex has burnt down several times on occasions including a lightning strike in 1421 and a siege by the bandit
leader Li Zicheng in 1644. This complex was built by order of the Yongle Emperor, and it is centered on the Hall of
Supreme Harmony. This complex was named because an invitation was required to enter it, and the last monarch to rule
from this complex was Emperor Puyi. For the point, name this former Chinese imperial palace in Beijing.
ANSWER: ​Forbidden City​ (accept ​Gugong​)

30. This state contains the popular mountaineering site of Franconia Notch. One face-like rock formation in this state, the
Old Man of the Mountain, collapsed in 2003. The Russo-Japanese war was ended by a treaty signed at this state’s city of
Portsmouth. This state’s Presidential Range contains peaks such as Mount Washington, where a global wind speed record
was set in 1934. The White Mountains run through this state, which holds the first primary in US election cycles. For the
point, name this New England state with its capital at Concord.
ANSWER: ​New Hampshire

Extra Tossups / Tiebreakers – ONLY READ IF NEEDED!

31. This country contains the world’s largest cave at Hang Son Doong, and its Ha Long Bay is a world-renowned
climbing site. This country’s capital is located along the Red River, and the Annamite Cordillera is located in this country.
This country’s largest city, now named for an independence leader, was once known as Saigon. For the point, name this
country where Ho Chi Minh City has a larger population than the capital of Hanoi.
ANSWER: ​Vietnam

32. This city is the setting of Gillo Pontecorvo’s most famous film. This city contains the Cathedral of Notre Dame
d’Afrique, a legacy of its former French colonization. This city lost population when the French-descended pieds-noirs
fled it following a war of independence that ended in 1962. Tunis, Tripoli, and this city were often grouped together as the
“barbary states”. For the point, name this Mediterranean port, the capital of Algeria.
ANSWER: ​Algiers​ (accept Al-​Djazair​, ​Alger​)

33. The island of Vieques off the coast of this island was formerly a missile range, and this island contains El Yunque
National Forest. A mayor from this island, Carmen Yulin Cruz, harshly criticized Donald Trump for his relief efforts after
Hurricane Maria struck this island. The US gained this island as a territory after the Spanish-American War. For the point,
name this island with its capital at San Juan.
ANSWER: ​Puerto Rico
